Below, we rounded up celebrities who have spoken candidly about their own battles with everything from postpartum depression to anorexia	metaphorical	1
In normal tissue during the stady state, cell birth equals cell death	metaphorical	1
Failure of some tumors to grow probably can be attributed to residual immune defenses in these animals	metaphorical	1
Oliver’s family’s nightmare began when he caught a cold during the Christmas holidays while he was enjoying a trip to New York with his mum, step-dad David and sister Holly, seven	metaphorical	1
LAK cells are cells that develop the ability to kill fresh tumor cells	literal	0
the multistage nature of malignancy	literal	0
cells not in cycle but able to be recruited into cycle	metaphorical	1
I really feel the diabetes coming	metaphorical	1
these libraries are useful in providing amplified copies of specific sequences; for example, a cDNA from reticulocytes will contain many copies of globin cDNA, whereas this gene occurs only twice in a genomic library.	literal	0
The analogies between GCN-4, jun oncogene and Apl strongly suggest that one mechanism of oncogenesis may be a transcriptional element gone awry	literal	0
Don’t die on me! No diabetes allowed. LOL	metaphorical	1
GCN-4 is a transcriptional control element in yeast	literal	0
I agree with you and Pamela. It is hard to relate to our families and friends sometimes. I have some pretty good days; then I have days when the “tear attacks” come out of nowhere and I can’t stop crying. I think that’s just from holding it in for far too long, trying to keep myself together. People think it should not be that upsetting to know you’re a carrier, but I feel like a ticking time bomb. My fear is not if I’ll get BC, it’s when I’ll get it, it’s always been my biggest fear. I realised not long ago that I’m exactly the same age my aunt was when she died and my kids are the same age as my cousins were then . . . . and that really shook me up. I just take it one day at a time and I’m so grateful for this group!	metaphorical	1
In theory, blocking any of the necessary steps for invasion listed in Table 7 - I could prevent tumor cell invasion.	literal	0
carcinogenic chemicals and radiation activate some form of	literal	0
origins of cancer through the actions of various agents	literal	0
at the end of the dissemination phase, the potential seeds of such metastases range from a single tumor cell to a tumor embolus visible with the naked eye.	metaphorical	1
Invasion begins with transgression of the first border. In most instances, this step coincides with passage of the tumor across the first basement membrane. Continuing invasion often requires the crossing of more tissue borders and, possibly, of more basement membranes.	metaphorical	1
the specificity of the genetic code	literal	0
DNA-damaging agents often stop cells in the G2 phase	metaphorical	1
transcriptional factors	metaphorical	1
“immunotherapies” hijack our natural defences to combat cancer	metaphorical	1
a six-base recognition sequence	literal	0
“Dengue fever crashes and regroups the immune system, so that it is reset to kill tumour cells,” says Bruce Lyday at PrimeVax	metaphorical	1
after an injury the excessive loss of differentiated cells triggers the recruitment of quiescent cells into the proliferative pool.	literal	0
ask your chemo nurses or your specialist if your looking for anything that might be of help in your fight against cancer	metaphorical	1
I have to avoid diabetes like the plague	metaphorical	1
oncogenes can control expression of...and can alter their signaling pathways	metaphorical	1
I had been able to handle the logistics when Mark was having his surgery two weeks before mine, but now we both headed home for six weeks of recovery together.	literal	0
The nature of putative second messengers is obscure	metaphorical	1
Human faces have tremendous variability. This variability is genetic variability. As everyone knows, some people have blue eyes, white skin and square cheeks. The same genetic dynamic occurs with cancer cells, which are a part of the human body controlled by the genetic composition of that person. One of the reasons that cancer drugs work so poorly is that they don't account for the genetic profile of the individual patient. In a fashion, drug development consists of	metaphorical	1
I would do certain meditations so I felt fairly connected.	metaphorical	1
antineoplastic drugs	literal	0
The action of these substances might, in part, explain both the markedly invasive character and the metastatic property of malignang neoplastic cells.	metaphorical	1
to determine cell survivability in the treated animals...	literal	0
Both foulds' concept of progression and the concept of initiation and promotion were developed from model systems in animals. Today, however, it is apparent that the multistage characteristic of carcinogenesis is not unique to these experimental systems...	literal	0
Cells of limited lifespan	metaphorical	1
natural history of chemical carcinogenesis: stages of initiation, promotion, and progression	metaphorical	1
DNase footprinting, DNA footprinting	metaphorical	1
The matrix determines tissue architecture, has important biologic functions, and is a mechanical barrier to invasion	metaphorical	1
The British-Bangladeshi baker and writer has spoken openly and often about her lifelong struggle with anxiety	metaphorical	1
to suppress colonizing organisms	literal	0
providing additional nutrients	literal	0
An increased understanding of the mechanisms of tumor cell invasion may lead to the development of pharmacologic agents or strategies that block tumor cell invasion	literal	0
a single strand is copied from a primer molecule by DNA polymerase	metaphorical	1
Young children are not infected and do not transmit the virus,	metaphorical	1
...it was hoped that ..., vaccination with antologous or allogeneic tumor cells of the same histologous type would force the immune apparatus to kill residual tumor cells	literal	0
biochemical marker, one that is present in some cells of the host but not in others. This mosaicism...	metaphorical	1
Developing treatments that attack cancer cells but leave healthy tissue unharmed is the holy grail of cancer research	metaphorical	1
All the genetic information of an organism encoded in the DNA genome present in each living cell	literal	0
Continued invasion of the matrix may take place by cyclic repetition of these three steps	metaphorical	1
The operation promised to reshape organ transplantation	metaphorical	1
In that situation it's so easy to fall ill because it's just not a clean place	metaphorical	1
cDNA libraries prepared in a similar manner have been useful for identifying transcripts that are differentially regulated in relted cell types in the so-called subtraction cloning technique. For example, to identify novel transcripts that are expressed in ...	literal	0
My process of living feels like two divergent realities.	metaphorical	1
Like sugar? So does...diabetes	metaphorical	1
One option was to do nothing and just live with the odds.	metaphorical	1
the malignant behavior of these cells	metaphorical	1
Both of these barriers have various collagen types that compose the structural scaffolding upon which other matrix components such as ... are assembled.	metaphorical	1
susceptible to immune attack	literal	0
If the collection of DNA fragments inserted into phage is representative of the entire genome ... the collection of lambda phage particles generated is termed a genomic library.	literal	0
At the age of 40 I had the chance to look at what was really important and make sure I didn’t miss it.	metaphorical	1
Thus in polyclonal populations, interactions are occurring which stabilize and control the behaviour of the complete tumour	literal	0
Hannah added:	metaphorical	1
If a pathogen does enter the body then the immune system helps to fight it off	metaphorical	1
In 2015, Lisa Nicole Carson opened up about her battle with bipolar disorder, which sidelined her career for over a decade	metaphorical	1
He added: 'I had a few brutal panic attacks, which is why I quit'	literal	0
RNA polymerase begins transcription at a promoter initiation site that lies	literal	0
Both helper and cytotoxic functions can be ascribed to cells of each lineage, a and other antigens have been useful to further delineate functional subsets within each of these T-cell populations	metaphorical	1
a tumor cell might move out into the surrounding host tissue and also exert a	literal	0
It wasn't something they had done before, and removing organs from such a small baby, and transplanting them, poses extra challenges	literal	0
Some of the antigens can be stripped off the tumor cells by the antibody without interfering with the life of the cell	metaphorical	1
to avoid damage to body barriers	metaphorical	1
The 3' untranslated portion of the message	metaphorical	1
The whole problem of cancer and growth control is intimately bound up with agents acting from outside the cell an with responses of cells to them.	metaphorical	1
Some of these transport mechanisms	literal	0
neoplasms can be heterogeneous in their propensity to invade and metastasize	literal	0
experts believe infection may cause blood clots, heart attacks and cardiac inflammation	literal	0
a major mechanism for the induction of neoplasia in immunosuppressed patients is the loss of host resistance to neoplastic cells...	literal	0
these enzymes are produced in bacteria and are part of an elaborate restriction/modification system that protects the bacteria from invasion by foreign DNA	metaphorical	1
The synthetic	literal	0
Diabetes destroyer	metaphorical	1
The homing potential of cells is affacted by radiation	metaphorical	1
repopulation of surviving cells	metaphorical	1
the multistep process of neoplasia	literal	0
Lyme disease - a bacterial infection - is carried by some species of ticks, and about 13% in the UK are believed to be infected	literal	0
drugs that target the cells with precision, effectively destroying the engine at the heart of the disease	metaphorical	1
I tried to gather as much information as possible.	metaphorical	1
This protein is a nonintegral tyrosine kinase that may play a role in signal transduction	literal	0
the new DNA molecules, each consisting of a parent strand and ..., are partitioned to each daughter cell	metaphorical	1
DNA is the target of agents that control cell growth by interactions that ultimately modify gene functions	literal	0
Although it would be important to distinguish between agents that induce neoplasms by direct action on the cells that become neoplastic and those that produce neoplasia by indirect actions in the animal as a whole, at present it is seldom possible to do so.	literal	0
Today, fear of dying, anxiety, depression, anger, panic attacks, insomnia and survivor's guilt - all known to affect survivors of natural disasters and war - have emerged as common symptoms	metaphorical	1
It was ... I just ... I learned my strength.	metaphorical	1
RNA transcription	literal	0
Going through cancer changes you.	metaphorical	1
tissues composed of cells that have become independent to some degree of the normal growth-controlling forces of the host	metaphorical	1
cell subpopulations that have successfully passed through the selective process of premestatic spread	literal	0
DNA is copied into RNA in a process called transcription, and the RNA is then used as a template for protein synthesis in a process called translation.	metaphorical	1
Antenatal depression and anxiety robbed me of my first pregnancy	metaphorical	1
The body is constantly defending against attacks from pathogens	metaphorical	1
General themes are emerging that yeld new strategies for prognosis and therapy of human metastatic cancer	metaphorical	1
When cells are irradiated, lethal damage can occur, or the damage may be modified and not lead irrevocably to cell death	literal	0
thus sending a continuous signal to the cell along the mitogenic pathway	metaphorical	1
The first approach consists in bolstering host defense mechanisms by vaccination	metaphorical	1
The disease was an aggressive opponent that I had to fight.	metaphorical	1
I definitely think that you should get genetic counselling and test as soon as possible. It will give you a lot of peace of mind and knowledge. I don’t mean to quote from ‘Schoolhouse Rock,’ but ‘Knowledge IS power!’ However, I do believe you are taking the right steps anyway! Ovarian cancer is nothing to mess around with and it sounds like it’s just rampant in your family. I am BRCA1 positive and was diagnosed with breast cancer in April. I’ll be getting a preventative hysterectomy later this year as well and I have the same fears as you do: that I’ll end up being some sweaty, angry, crazy person that my son doesn’t want to be around. But from what I have read, while there is an adjustment period, it does get better and they may be able to put you on some low-dose hormone therapy for a little while if necessary to get you over the worst of it.	metaphorical	1
It was like putting on a new pair of glasses.	metaphorical	1
I'm new to the forum and wanted to know if there are any other younger bowel cancer fighters amongst us.	metaphorical	1
A malignant tumor may be characterized as a cell population that increases continually	metaphorical	1
Excessive use of painkillers is on the rise	metaphorical	1
These highly aggressive cells may be selected out because they have a high probability of successfully producing a metastatic colony compared with other subpopulationsof primary tumor cells.	metaphorical	1
which aims to raise awareness that the medications can simply be masking the pain rather than killing it	metaphorical	1
Noel Gallagher has revealed that he took cocaine every night for four years and it caused 'brutal panic attacks' which led him to quit the drug	literal	0
In the fight against high blood pressure, potassium is a powerful weapon	metaphorical	1
oncogenes confer growth factor autonomy to cells	metaphorical	1
Michael Levin explained that most of the children tested negative for coronavirus, but tested positive for detection of antibodies	literal	0
This activates a process termed signal transduction whereby specific signals are transmitted throughout the cell to the nucleus	literal	0
Don’t talk to me, you’re giving me diabetes.	metaphorical	1
histologic study of regressing lesions supports the idea that the tumor is killed as an innocent bystander if a granulomatous inflammatory response	metaphorical	1
Consequently, an anti-invasion agent may block tumor angiogenesis	literal	0
A former Charlton Athletic women's player has tragically died aged 20 after a battle with cancer	metaphorical	1
Salty enough to give high blood pressure	metaphorical	1
She opted to come off her painkillers and uses exercise to manage her symptoms instead	literal	0
resistance to antineoplastic drugs	literal	0
Swab tests to detect the virus are not thought to be useful because the reaction tends to occur many weeks after infection	literal	0
We were just so bonded.	metaphorical	1
a layer of	metaphorical	1
In January 2017, Hayden Panettiere offered some advice for fellow moms who have struggled with postpartum depression	literal	0
Within a specific cell type, certain genes are	metaphorical	1
But she said she has had	literal	0
And you have a colostomy and that was ... like from another planet.	metaphorical	1
DNase footprinting: A technique that allows the determination of the specific DNA sequence in the binding sites of a DNA binding protein or protein complex.	literal	0
the cells...continue maturation until the adult functioning cell is produced	metaphorical	1
I felt overwhelmed.	metaphorical	1
It is inside the lungs that the virus turns nasty. It invades the millions of tiny air sacs in the lungs, causing them to become inflamed	metaphorical	1
The scientists compare their work to the 1799 discovery of the Rosetta Stone, which enabled archaeologists to decipher Egyptian hieroglyphics	literal	0
Infecting vulnerable patients with a tropical illness may sound foolhardy, but dengue fever is less likely to kill the average adult than the common cold	metaphorical	1
It’s not that it ever was lighter.	metaphorical	1
Or perhaps it’s significant that when we are fighting bacteria or viruses, our blood is awash with inflammatory molecules that , turning these immune cells into warriors that kill and engulf microbes	metaphorical	1
nan	metaphorical	1
Tumor cells must cross basement membranes to invade peripheral nerves ...	metaphorical	1
“Patients ill in hospital with Covid are showing signs of significant heart and vascular problems,” said Prof Shah	literal	0
This behavior of tumor cells in culture reflects their behaviour in vivo	metaphorical	1
Cancer is so unpredictable.	metaphorical	1
She has battled other forms of cancer over the past two decades but has continued to fulfil her duties on America’s highest judicial body	metaphorical	1
the analogies between GCN-4, jun oncogene and Apl strongly suggest that one mechanism of oncogenesis may be a transcriptional element gone awry;	metaphorical	1
I just had a crazy blood sugar spike	metaphorical	1
The discovery that the action of two oncogenes, myc and foss, are involved in this process, is yet another example of intimate relationships between growth factors and oncogenes	metaphorical	1
The scientists also believe the techniques used will help them unravel other cancers	literal	0
Three-step theory of invasion	metaphorical	1
Loss of fertility is common after a stem cell or bone marrow transplant, and chemotherapy can affect a woman’s fertility	literal	0
But there was no doubt in either of our minds where she would go for treatment.	metaphorical	1
the renewing cell populations	metaphorical	1
little is known about differences in this mechanism between tumor and nontumor cells.	literal	0
A series of codons that can be transcribed into protein is known as an open reading frame.	literal	0
A polyadenylation signal is encoded in the DNA	literal	0
The first portion of mRNA usually does not code for a protein sequence and is referred to as untranslated leader.	literal	0
Prof Russell Viner, president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, said the majority of children who have had the condition	literal	0
A woman who needs reconstructive surgery after getting a tummy tuck and breast implants in Turkey has said she	literal	0
It’s understood that the Wynnum Manly is believed to have suffered a suspected heart attack	literal	0
NK cells are cells that can lyse a select group of cultured cell lines	literal	0
Lucy Kerr, 20, was diagnosed with bone cancer when she broke her thigh bone	literal	0
Your husband sounds like a fighter which will hold him in good stead.	metaphorical	1
the possibility that the tumor has to escape immunologic and host defense mechanism	metaphorical	1
Tumorogenic cells in culture have diminished sensitivity to the presence of other cells in their immediate vicinity.	literal	0
These libraries are useful in providing amplified copies of specific sequences.	literal	0
cells have the capacity to call upon an adaptive, coordinated defense mechanism when assaulted by cyclotoxins. Once this program is turned on by one agent, it appears to be effective against others. Such a system may protect normal cells against environmental assault, but in cancer patients it appears to protect neoplastic cells against chemotherapeutic agents, which are also derived from environmental sources.	metaphorical	1
But as someone who self-harmed as a teenager and experienced panic attacks at university a decade ago	literal	0
the behavior of blood-borne cancer cells	metaphorical	1
cancer cells continue to grow in environments that stop normal cells	literal	0
Once the tumor cells enter the stroma they gain access to lymphatics and blood vessels for further dissemination	literal	0
Although we can sometimes mistake a TV show for a true representation of human behavior, we generally agree there is much more to life than what we see on Temptation Island or Big Brother. Systems biology can only work if we relate back to the cell, organism, or ecosystem. It is the behavior of our models that is complex, not necessarily the behavior of the cell.	literal	0
Depression runs in families, we know	metaphorical	1
When men and women present with the same acute abdominal pain, women have to wait longer to see a doctor and are less likely to be given painkillers	literal	0
a six-base recognition restriction enzyme	literal	0
For these reasons it was hoped that in humans, particularly in an adjuvant setting shortly after radical surgery, vaccination with antologous or allogenic tumor cells od the same histologous type would force the immune apparatus to kill residual tumor cells that would otherwise have grown into metastases.	metaphorical	1
In neoplastic cells the restriction point event in G1 is less dependent that in nontumor cells on external signals such as growth factors, nearby cells, or substratum	metaphorical	1
The end of the RNA is terminated by posttranscriptional modification called polyadenylation	literal	0
Both extensive cell birth and cell death occur	metaphorical	1
the tumorous cells, so that they can attack the cancer again	metaphorical	1
They move oxygen around the body the way barges moves stuff up and down the Mississippi river. Of course the red blood cells can only carry 4 oxygen molecules/hemoglobin molecule. But there are many of these little boats, about 45% of the blood, so the system works pretty well.	metaphorical	1
daughter cell	metaphorical	1
Even from dealing with the initial paperwork, I could see the dedication that went into patient care at every step of the way.	literal	0
certain chemotherapeutic agents are	literal	0
To be able to complete this course, metastatic cells must have many special properties	metaphorical	1
The lungs may be ground zero for Covid-19 but scientists think it may also invade the circulatory system, getting deep into our veins	metaphorical	1
the loci in question may be physiologically essential constituents of the cell's genetic apparatus that become pathogenic only when their structure or control is disturbed by oncogenic agents	literal	0
a respiratory virus – one that simply attacks the lungs	metaphorical	1
White blood cells attack pathogens	metaphorical	1
The long life of the red cell	metaphorical	1
That question allowed me to stop worrying, to pray and give thanks to God, and keep going with my day.	literal	0
the radiation dose necessary to sterilize hypoxic cells	metaphorical	1
cancer cells in the dissemination phase are in a precarious situation. Their chance of survival, largely coinciding with their chances of escape from the circulation	metaphorical	1
There are many types of cells. Red blood cells, immune cells, liver cells and thousand more. In a complex organism they fit together as a somewhat harmonious whole. You see the same type of structural harmony with assembled Legos. There are many shapes and sizes of Lego and several colors. They can be put together to make some thing that makes sense, a house, a plane or just about anything else. The linked LegoMan is a good approximation. Of course if there were round Legos, it would be an even better approximation.	metaphorical	1
an anti-tumour protein which puts cells into hibernation or makes them commit suicide if they start to get cancerous	metaphorical	1
You can probably get high blood pressure from one large fry at McDonald’s	literal	0
The modified adenovirus exploits what Lawrence Young, who is leading the research project at the University of Birmingham, calls the cancer cell’s “achilles heel”.	metaphorical	1
Nine years later, she shows no sign of relapse	metaphorical	1
cooperative interactions of several growth factors	metaphorical	1
forming a network of interacting antibodies	literal	0
...are alternative methods of protein analysis and are used for comparing one product to another as in a fingerprint	metaphorical	1
I could taste the diabetes	metaphorical	1
I went online to read about my cancer and the treatment options available.	metaphorical	1
With jagged particles, because of the way they follow the path of the air, there's a lower chance of them impacting the sinus walls at the back of the throat - which is the body's defence mechanism for keeping particles out of the lungs	metaphorical	1
Arms – the person with suspected stroke may not be able to lift both arms and keep them there because of weakness or numbness in 1 arm	literal	0
A new type of genetic	metaphorical	1
Women, failing to seek medical advice for a suspected heart attack for fear of being considered a hypochondriac,	literal	0
In addition to spontaneous repopulation, there may be an induced cell proliferation or recruitment of cells	metaphorical	1
a team has been studying the increasing prevalence of painkiller use	metaphorical	1
We discussed my treatment options.	literal	0
Covid-19, Harry says, is an 'evil disease' but one the country will once again come together to defeat	metaphorical	1
It allowed me to see life in a different way.	metaphorical	1
basement membrane barrier	metaphorical	1
Staff, mostly dressed in medical scrubs, neglected to mention any potential adverse events associated with stem cell transplants	metaphorical	1
by way of highly active anabolic pathways	literal	0
Meanwhile, the patient is given a dose of dengue fever, a disease normally carried by mosquitoes, before they are injected with the newly trained dendritic cells	metaphorical	1
It turned out that he found two new trouble spots.	literal	0
cell death owing to inadequate nutrition	literal	0
the tumor cell may also achieve the same type of autonomy by modification of...	metaphorical	1
You really do believe you are OK and you are as strong as you think you are.	literal	0
the cascade or multistep theory of spread	metaphorical	1
kick some cancer butt	metaphorical	1
You are such a fighter and so inspirational.	metaphorical	1
Growth of more fastidious cells	metaphorical	1
Today, we try to make a difference wherever we go.	metaphorical	1
A library is generated from this enriched cDNA fraction and can be screened with isotopically labeled total RNA from each cell type to identify the novel transcripts.	literal	0
Ms Jones and Mr Cowan were among 15 festival-goers to fall ill at the King George V Playing Fields in Cosham on the night of Saturday 26 May	literal	0
the cells that can mediate the greatest killing	metaphorical	1
I just wanted to buy time until my surgeon was home.	metaphorical	1
Recently, a third population of lymphocytes, null cells, has been identified that express neither T nor B cell-surface markers	literal	0
Couples who develop diabetes together stay together!	literal	0
a single open reading frame coding for 153 amino acids.	literal	0
This is the idea that some parents are buying into when they perform vaginal seeding	metaphorical	1
“I think the infection changes the innate immune cells from helping the tumours to killing them,”	literal	0
He's also been outspoken about his battle with OCD, which he described as	literal	0
cells that would have died can be salvaged	metaphorical	1
Even if transplanted cells are able to migrate to the areas of damage, mature and integrate into a patient’s nervous system before the disease takes its toll	metaphorical	1
Vaccines are many months away and may well not be a silver bullet when they arrive	metaphorical	1
A bodybuilder celebrating British and European title wins says his	metaphorical	1
One study in JAMA Cardiology journal, found that 20 per cent of 416 patients hospitalised in Wuhan with the coronavirus had heart damage	literal	0
Diabetes messing with my eyes	metaphorical	1
Prof Brocklehurst says:	metaphorical	1
In normal renewal populations, there is evidence for the existence of a small population of stem cells whose progeny can proliferate and differentiate to repopulate the tissue	metaphorical	1
No diabetes allowed	literal	0
The discovery gives doctors the first chance to tailor chemotherapy to suit individual children	metaphorical	1
an imbalanced regulation of motility an proteolysis appears to be required for invasion and metastasis.	metaphorical	1
In MS the condition has a clear immune basis, so it makes much more logical sense to do bone marrow transplants as a way of treating the disease	literal	0
Many studies have shown that cell replication is required to	metaphorical	1
This inter-receptor communication represents another mechanism for regulation of cellular response patterns.	literal	0
T cells look for the presence of new antigens	literal	0
The fight at the frontlines of Covid-19 is being waged in clinics and hospitals around the world	metaphorical	1
and the primary RNA transcript consists of a series of coding an noncoding regions.	literal	0
Each step involves multiple tumor-host interactions	metaphorical	1
The doctor said we can fix that.	literal	0
a population of poorly nourished cells	metaphorical	1
I went for an initial consultation and met with my medical oncologist, who explained the particulars of cancer very clearly, even drawing pictures to make sure I understood exactly what he was telling me.	literal	0
some agents such as immune suppressants	metaphorical	1
Granulocytopenia, ... and concomitant damage to body barriers	metaphorical	1
Hypertension dangers lurking in obese kids	metaphorical	1
Control your high blood pressure	metaphorical	1
a relationship between reactive oxygen species and the inhibition of intercellular communication by promoting agents has been described	literal	0
Tumor cells must penetrate	metaphorical	1
For me, faith became that tool.	metaphorical	1
It was a very spiritual experience to connect with others, and it helped renew my faith.	metaphorical	1
DNA damage and repair	metaphorical	1
There thus must be sequential signals for initiations of groups of replicons. What these signals are and whether they are altered in any way in neoplastic cells is unknown.	literal	0
The flow of information in eukaryotic cells is from DNA into RNA in a process called transcription;RNA is then used as a blueprint for protein in a process called translation.RNA polymerase is the enzyme that transcribes genes into RNA.	metaphorical	1
carcinogenesis usually is considered multistage	literal	0
MY MOTHER fought cancer for almost a decade and died at 56.	metaphorical	1
This allows the tumor to penetrate into and impinge directly on bone substance	metaphorical	1
Toddlers have almost no control of what they feel and how they react. Sometimes, I notice myself reacting and in my head, I know it's irrational or due to an anxiety symptom, but I literally don't know how else to cope besides lashing out.	metaphorical	1
If chemotherapy does not wipe all of them out, they can slowly begin to produce new cancer cells years later.	metaphorical	1
cells that immigrate from unirradiated adjacent areas	metaphorical	1
The idea of that therapy really struck me as something I wanted.	metaphorical	1
I was knocked over by the news.	metaphorical	1
If jammed, cancer cells are able to display..., they destroy ...	metaphorical	1
responses to individual tumors to drugs differ...	literal	0
That’s a nice cart full of diabetes you’ve got there	metaphorical	1
cycle-specific antineoplastic drugs	metaphorical	1
specific sanctuary sites, such as the central nervous system	metaphorical	1
A three-step hypothesis has been promosed to describe the sequence of biochemical events during tumor cell invasion of the extracellular matrix.	metaphorical	1
These nucleotides or bases are linked together in chains that ...	metaphorical	1
His mom Rachel Flynn, 34, and dad Tom Darlington, 39, are now sharing Oliver’s story to raise awareness for sepsis and to urge other parents to be vigilant for the signs of the condition	literal	0
DNase footprinting methods are used to identify the sequences in the specific binding region of DNA fragments.	literal	0
I still didn’t think I had cancer, thinking perhaps it was a stomach ulcer	literal	0
Jazmine Allen, 23, who already has a 10-year history of using prescription painkillers, is taking part in the 'Painkillers Don't Exist' campaign	metaphorical	1
a patient would be injected with specially-designed antibodies that are coated in a light-sensitive shell. The coating prevents the antibodies from causing a massive immune reaction throughout the patient’s body. Once the “cloaked” antibodies have been injected, doctors shine ultraviolet light on the tumour	metaphorical	1
At the time of diagnosis, most neoplasms consist of different population of cells with diverse biologic characteristics	literal	0
It contains hydrochloric acid, and while it does us no harm, it is strong enough to kill any pathogens	literal	0
Mr Jones also claims that anyone who has ever had any coronavirus infection, or the common cold, will produce a positive test	metaphorical	1
a major mechanism for the induction of neoplasia in immunosuppressed patients is the loss of host resistance to neoplastic cells already present but normally prevented from expressing their neoplastic potential by immune mechanisms of the host.	metaphorical	1
Bacteria normally found in yogurt have been turned into “silver bullets” that could provide a cure for the common cold	metaphorical	1
With this procedure, a balloon-type device is inserted into the area where the cancer cells are located.	literal	0
cDNA libraries...have been extremely useful for identifying transcripts	metaphorical	1
The	metaphorical	1
It was something that I didn’t want to be having as part of me.	metaphorical	1
Precisely how the virus attacks the heart and blood vessels remains a mystery	metaphorical	1
...cells may arrest and die...	metaphorical	1
post-translational modification	literal	0
Chemical carcinogenesis is believed to be a two-step process consisting of an irreversible initiation event, followed by exposure to promoting agents.	literal	0
“...a very small population, only 1% of leukaemia cells, that turn out to be the ring leaders”	metaphorical	1
treatment strategies of malignant disease	literal	0
the tumor cell encounters .. when it penetrates ... and when it crosses ...	metaphorical	1
I also want to acknowledge the faith that helped carry me through my fears.	metaphorical	1
with the stem cells as the progenitors of the compartment	metaphorical	1
I taught a lesson dreamed up by my mentor teacher Thursday in which the kids act out the process of cell division as a	metaphorical	1
My blood sugar drops drastically today...I feel like my energy has been drained. Still feeling weak until now.	metaphorical	1
I explained to her that this was temporary, and we always emphasized the short-term nature of the treatment.	literal	0
autonomous growth of tissue	literal	0
I felt distanced from myself.	literal	0
the total population of cells	literal	0
immune surveillance mechanisms	metaphorical	1
Gareth originally had a heart transplant in 1990, aged only 17, after he contracted cardiomyopathy, a disease of the heart muscle	literal	0
Relatively little is known about DNA repair mechanisms in higher organisms	literal	0
I viewed cancer as not an option.	metaphorical	1
Due to the potential trapping function of their capillary nets, lung, liver, and bone marrow operate as filter organs	metaphorical	1
It may not sound as dramatic as saving someone from a heart attack, but this is lifesaving care	metaphorical	1
the cell's basic defense mechanism against toxic agents found naturally in the environment	metaphorical	1
A large foundation of experimental work suggests that during each stage of the process of metastasis the rules of survival of the fittest tumor cells apply.	metaphorical	1
The actively invading tumor cells may merely respond to different regulatory signals than their noninvasive counterparts.	metaphorical	1
primary tumors from which lungs metastases are seeded	metaphorical	1
cellular nutrition	metaphorical	1
Hamm has also talked about the benefits of therapy and antidepressants in his battle with chronic depression	metaphorical	1
How each cell determines its phenotype and maintains its cellular function throughout its life is a marvelous, albeit complex, achievement.	metaphorical	1
I remember going into the MRI machine thinking about how my doctors had done all they could up to that point, how I had tried to take care of myself and that we had all done our best.	literal	0
spontaneous cancers	literal	0
members of the fibroblast growth factor family	metaphorical	1
Professor Macchiarini already has 10 other windpipe transplants under his belt - most notably the world's first tissue-engineered tracheal transplant	metaphorical	1
the survival of the different types of tumor cells varies widely	literal	0
cancer cell trapping in lymph nodes	metaphorical	1
The Harry Potter author has been open about her battle with depression	metaphorical	1
classical concepts of initiation - promotion and multistage carcinogenesis	literal	0
It was role-reversal.	metaphorical	1
Before the outbreak, addiction to the potent opioid painkiller Opana swept through the community	metaphorical	1
This in polyclonal populations, interactions are occurring which stabilize and control the behaviour of the complete tumour.	metaphorical	1
cDNA libraries: A collection of clones representative of the mRNA of a given cell type that is formed using the enzyme reverse transcriptase.	metaphorical	1
How such a transcription factor operates at the molecular level is not yet understood	literal	0
Last year she made a documentary for the BBC in which she spoke about and sought treatment for her regular panic attacks	literal	0
what did i think all my normal little cells were doing after being hit by a sledgehammer of both toxic chemicals and radiation.	metaphorical	1
Relatively little is known about DNA repair mechanisms in higher organisms, not even how many major repair mechanisms are in human cells.	literal	0
transported cells are subject to a kind of filtration process	metaphorical	1
poor nutrition may cause cells to become quiescent	literal	0
Although the principal function of null cells is not known, ...	literal	0
At all stages of the metastatic cascade, tumor cells must overcome host defenses	metaphorical	1
I am so thankful that my journey brought me to CTCA.	metaphorical	1
The prayers, meals and calls—and just having them there—helped get me through a rough part of my life.	metaphorical	1
their functions relate to cell shape, spreading, and division, and possibly to the transmission of signals from the membrane into the cell	literal	0
A couple of weeks later, I returned for a follow-up visit and the surgeon reported that the incision was healing nicely.	literal	0
although separate functions have been assigned to these cell types, it is now clear that they interact in many ways and can regulate each others' activities	literal	0
Phosphorylations very possibly will provide clues to how growth factors communicate their information to the cells' machinery	metaphorical	1
An anti-tumour protein which puts cells into hibernation	metaphorical	1
Difficulties in interpretation arise from the complexity of cell growth, with its multitude of biochemical reactions that are connected into a great metabolic network	literal	0
When basic science provides us with an understanding of the physiologic controls of the immunoresponse, we may be able to intervene to remove those controls temporarily so that the nonspecific immune stimulants can turn on the system and it is not turned off until the physician replaces the negative control elements after the therapeutic effect has been achieved.	literal	0
Slash high blood pressure	metaphorical	1
Cancer was something I needed for me to get through.	metaphorical	1
providing the cell with the ability to withstand toxic agents	metaphorical	1
Stepped care approach to tackle uncontrolled high blood pressure	metaphorical	1
#roadtodiabetes	metaphorical	1
I was a mess.	metaphorical	1
I am fighting	literal	0
if a cell aquires the ability to produce its own growth factors... it then is under less stringent external growth control and has a selective growth advantage over neighboring cells, which are still subject to external regulation	literal	0
anticancer drugs	literal	0
To tackle the problem, investigators have separated invasion and metastasis into a series of defined sequential steps and focused on one step at a time. For each step, new experimental models had to be developed, and a...	literal	0
a cascade or coordinated group of gene products expressed above a certain threshold level may be required for a tumor cell to successfully traverse the successive steps in the metastatic process	metaphorical	1
suppressor T cells; cytotoxic T cells; natural killer cells NK	literal	0
promoting agents, or the new class of	metaphorical	1
It is unclear whether this happens because the virus attacks the kidneys directly – there is an abundance of ACE2 receptors within the organ	literal	0
many growth factors and cell receptors can, under the appropriate circumstances, behave as oncogenes	metaphorical	1
the formation of metastatic colonies	literal	0
DNA methylation may increase transcriptional activity of a gene	metaphorical	1
Scientists solve riddle of arsenic cancer treatment	metaphorical	1
The mechanism mainly responsible for repairing UV lesions	literal	0
But where single cells are concerned, the decisive factor might be a change in the sensory world of these cells, manifesting itself as a loss of basement membrane perception	metaphorical	1
cell traffic	metaphorical	1
part of a fitness regimen so obsessive we eventually learn regular facelifts help keep him in tip-top shape	metaphorical	1
nutrient capillaries	metaphorical	1
Intracellular concentrations of these ions depend on transport systems	literal	0
Telehealth may help patients control high blood pressure, but engagement is a barrier	metaphorical	1
issues that are circumvented by the use of stems cells harvested from adult tissues	metaphorical	1
Nontumorogenic cultured cells often cease growth as a well-ordered monolayer. Transformed cells, by contrast, often crisscross each other randomly, forming local piles of viable cells.	literal	0
The 45-year-old, from Stockport, has been waiting longer than anyone else in the UK on the current list of heart transplant patients	literal	0
Other candidates for second messengers are metal ions such as Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, and K+	metaphorical	1
Your words though have given me a bit more of my fighting spirit back. I am ready to kick some cancer butt!	metaphorical	1
The disease broke me down.	metaphorical	1
many of the floating cells may be trapped in supraclavicular lymph nodes	metaphorical	1
intracellular matrix	metaphorical	1
providing the cell with the ability to withstand toxic agentd	metaphorical	1
...represents rather a short period in the total life history of a tumor	metaphorical	1
Neoplastic cells have changed so as to become	metaphorical	1
the several-step sequence of tumor preduction	metaphorical	1
Protocols exemplified by the initiation-promotion-initiation-format have been described both in the mouse skin and rat liver.	metaphorical	1
Cancer is a would-be suitor.	metaphorical	1
function as tumor suppressors or	literal	0
cDNA libraries differ from genomic libraries by being limited to only the transcribed portion of genes and therefore are greatly reduced in sequence complexity	literal	0
So how does the virus attack?	literal	0
Cerebrospinal fluid produced by ependymal cells provides both mechanical protection - padding - and a means to remove metabolic waste products.	metaphorical	1
Oh diabetes, you’re the reason I don’t sleep	metaphorical	1
the soot was the causative agent	metaphorical	1
cells...die in a few days	metaphorical	1
The balance of data currently suggests that protein growth factors probably function by acting on the membrane to produce and release	metaphorical	1
No matter who we come across or where we are, we try to carry good things with us.	metaphorical	1
For his colleagues, the biggest fear is catching the virus themselves and infecting family members at home, Dr Rizzi says	literal	0
The 23-time Olympic swimming champion has spoken in the past about his struggles with depression	metaphorical	1
gene expression: transcription translation	metaphorical	1
At the invasion front tumor cells also invade preestablished host blood vessels	metaphorical	1
daily tumor turnover	metaphorical	1
interactions between	metaphorical	1
Part of me was frightened but there was another part that was fairly okay—I’ll get through this,you know and learn new things.	metaphorical	1
There are certain points in the cancer journey where the plan has to change.	metaphorical	1
wedge-and-tongue-like tumor projections	metaphorical	1
Mature cells have a short lifespan	literal	0
Tips on how to prevent the path to diabetes	metaphorical	1
Short-lived daughters or progeny that are isotopes of polonium, lead and bismuth	metaphorical	1
cells have the capacity to call upon an adaptive, coordinated, defense mechanism when assaulted by cyclotoxins.	metaphorical	1
Although such a phenomenon has not been shown to be a ubiquitous characteristic of promoting agents, a relationship between reactive oxygen species and the inhibition of intercellular communication by promoting agents has been described.	literal	0
blood-borne cancer cells are in a predominantly hostile environment	metaphorical	1
normal growth control	literal	0
mitosis and cell division follow without much overall control from external agents	metaphorical	1
Many antineoplastic drugs kill only cells that are in S phase	metaphorical	1
I now have another thing to beat my surgeon up about.	metaphorical	1
the cells do not migrate across one another, and they line up in a monolayer of parallel cells	metaphorical	1
a single cell undergoes some change which gives it a selective advantage for growth over its neighbouring cells	metaphorical	1
Tumor cells may be out of cycle because of...limited access, to nutrients	literal	0
Fibrosarcomas and angiosarcomas ..., invade surrounding muscle basement membrane and destroy myocytes.	metaphorical	1
the demonstrated promoting action of various agents in the human enviroment	metaphorical	1
the infectious agent was not only capable of inducing tumors, but also imprinted the ohenotype characteristics of the original tumor on the recipient transformed cell.	metaphorical	1
widely different agents are causative	literal	0
These cells' geoth-oriented, independent behavior appears to correlate with...	metaphorical	1
cells equipped with the capacities of survival and proliferation. Apparently this functional outfit is frequently confined to subsets of the original tumor cell population	metaphorical	1
The NHS test, which is highly accurate, looks at antibodies the body produces, which can take some weeks to reach detectable levels	literal	0
There has been an emerging trend among mothers who have a caesarean section for “vaginal seeding”	metaphorical	1
and the short fragments serve as	metaphorical	1
The discovery is expected to boost the search for similar cells that drive other types of cancer.	metaphorical	1
The former intravenous drug user was among the first to be diagnosed in the worst drug-fueled HIV outbreak ever to hit rural America	literal	0
excessive, uncoordinated growth autonomous from normal rregulatory stimuli	metaphorical	1
...do not record the fate of individual cells	literal	0
We won that battle but imagine what would have happened if she hadn’t had a family to defend her?	metaphorical	1
cellular pedigree	metaphorical	1
I learned so much from this illness.	metaphorical	1
These studies, carried out princiaplly with mouse epiermis in vivo, suggested that the latent period during epidermal carcinogenesis of the skin of the mouse consisted of at least two stages, now termed initiation and promotion.	literal	0
Jason Chesney, of the University of Louisville, Kentucky, used the body's own defences to fight the melanoma in his patients	metaphorical	1
the nearly palindromic oligonucleotide ATCACTCAT	literal	0
The ultimate goal of metastasis prevention would be the selective eradication of established metastases, perhaps by targeting toxic agents to the metastatic foci.	metaphorical	1
Mountain dew tastes like diabetes and depression	metaphorical	1
On Twitter, he cited	metaphorical	1
cancer elements gain access	metaphorical	1
a new way to regulate a key family of proteins involved in cell crawling that will change the way researchers see current models of cell migration - an important aspect of the spread of cancer.”	metaphorical	1
A Scottish woman who astonished doctors with her ability to detect Parkinson's disease through smell has helped scientists find what causes the odour	literal	0
A complex of several proteins is associated with some receptors across the membrane and is proposed to act as a signaling mechanism	metaphorical	1
one now looks forward with confidence to integration of these elements into the cancer puzzle	metaphorical	1
There are, however, additional pathways, the so-called second messengers, that are also important in signal transduction	metaphorical	1
The dance he has choreographed for me was riddled with mis-matched moves.	metaphorical	1
I do not want to feel a failure about something beyond my control. I refuse to believe my death will be because I didn't battle hard enough.	metaphorical	1
I’m not winning this battle	metaphorical	1
I’m grateful for the care I received at CTCA and for the support I had from my family and friends during my treatment.	metaphorical	1
All of a sudden, it was like the plug had just been pulled in me and I was empty.	metaphorical	1
This was four days before the WHO's China country office was informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause being detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan	literal	0
It has been shown that cells express specific cell surface receptors that recognize extracellular matrix proteins	literal	0
He said many other organs could be repaired or replaced	literal	0
An outspoken advocate for mental health awareness, Demi Lovato is open about her battles with bipolar disorder, bulimia, and addiction	metaphorical	1
Normal stem cells are susceptible to a variety of positively and negatively acting growth factors that provide a growth regulatory feedback network	metaphorical	1
“You’re keeping them alive hoping that their own immune system fights the virus”	metaphorical	1
very little is known about the mechanism whereby the signal from the receptor is transduced into a specific biological response within the cell itself	literal	0
“We are seeing a range of illness; some people develop blood clots, others heart attacks or kidney failure,”	literal	0
A crucial feature of spread consists in the fact that host territory is occupied through destruction	metaphorical	1
I’d rather catch diabetes than feels	metaphorical	1
A nine-year old boy developed multiple brain and spinal cord tumours following stem cell transplant	literal	0
Tumor cell invasion requires crossing tissue compartment barriers such as basement membranes and interstitial connective tissues.	metaphorical	1
A metastatic tumor cell, in order to be successful, must leave the primary tumor and invade local host tissue.	metaphorical	1
... cycling cells will continue in the proliferative cycle of be switched into G0	literal	0
cell lineages	metaphorical	1
DNA Function: Transcription	metaphorical	1
Spontaneously initiated cells...may thus be considered the progenitors of spontaneous nepolasms	metaphorical	1
Diabetes doesn’t define me, it explains me	metaphorical	1
protective mechanisms	metaphorical	1
I went for an ultrasound at the Royal Free Hospital, confirming it wasn’t gallstones – but I also had a blood test, which showed my inflammation rate was high, and my platelet count low	literal	0
the diversity of agents that cause cancer	literal	0
There is no really effective drug which can be given after surgery that would help to mop up the cancer cells.	metaphorical	1
Doctors say there is no evidence the disease has spread elsewhere	literal	0
A patient treated in a hospital near Paris on 27 December for suspected pneumonia actually had the coronavirus, his doctor has said	literal	0
“Despite intense scientific research over the past 20 years, there have been few new leads in our understanding of how this disease operates”.	literal	0
It's sad that anyone, but especially younger people like yourself, find themself with this battle to fight.	metaphorical	1
an increased escape of cancer cells in the blood stream	metaphorical	1
a battering from chemo	metaphorical	1
This metabolic machinery...	metaphorical	1
Tumor lifespan	metaphorical	1
Most of the restriction enzymes...recognize either six, five, or four nucleotide base pairs of DNA sequence	metaphorical	1
continued invasion of the matrix may take place by cyclic repetition of these three steps.	metaphorical	1
During the process of invasion, tumor cells must traverse these barriers to cross tissue boundaries	metaphorical	1
Cancer and the fighting of it is something to be very proud of.	metaphorical	1
T cells...recognize antigen via receptor molecules	literal	0
These antibodies recognize products that are normally expressed early in fetal life...	literal	0
This allows representative genomic libraries to be constructed that are fewer in number than lambda phage genomic libraries.	literal	0
tumor invasion	metaphorical	1
When we come to CTCA, the staff remembers our names and why we are there.	literal	0
Host defenses also may destroy some tumor cells, causing some cell loss	metaphorical	1
How and when the switching on and off of genes occurs, ... and what outside mechanisms can alter cell behavior via changes in gene regulation are key questions currenly being addressed.	literal	0
some tumors have managed to escape immune detection by the ingenious mechanism of decreasing or eliminating their expression of MHC antigens	literal	0
tumor lines	metaphorical	1
cancer cells subpopulations are not autonomously operating units, but prone to interactions with other subpopulations	metaphorical	1
cancer cells demonstrate the ability to circumvent a well-defined pathway of attack to a given cytoxic agent	metaphorical	1
The codons UAA, UAG and UGA are translation termination signals	literal	0
If a cell aquires the ability to produce its own growth factors...	literal	0
the radon and thoron daughters attach to areosol particles	metaphorical	1
Imagine having the psychosis and having to have to go to hospital	literal	0
In both tumors and normal tissues there will be cell birth and cell death	literal	0
I was really impressed by how I handled it.	metaphorical	1
it is possible to inhibit the process of carcinogenesis with agents that have been termed anticarcinogens or to stimulate the process of initiation with agents that have been termed cocarcinogens. Both types of agents usually act during ...	metaphorical	1
They do not detect other coronaviruses nor do they detect the common cold	literal	0
I’m … also sharpening my weapons in case I have to do battle	metaphorical	1
transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulatory elements.	metaphorical	1
This information is encoded in DNA	metaphorical	1
The publication of this sent a signal to the medical community that the miraculous- sounding project of growing and implanting synthetic transplants was a viable treatment	metaphorical	1
the cells that mutated received sufficient radiation to become sterile	literal	0
no permanent harm comes to the cell	literal	0
cell fusions between differentiated and nondifferentiated partners	metaphorical	1
...and therefore these cells will survive treatment	literal	0
The American Diabetes Association is leading the fight against the deadly consequences of diabetes	metaphorical	1
My body’s working really hard for me ... its responding and doing well.	metaphorical	1
I asked for a brownie and instead I got diabetes	metaphorical	1
If it is a recurrence that took a decade to form, “that tells me it’s not a very aggressive cancer,” he said	metaphorical	1
Sometimes members of the same family are fighting for their lives in the same hospital, giving patients a different kind of guilt	metaphorical	1
Surgeons in Sweden have carried out the world's first synthetic organ transplant	literal	0
I used my nursing skills to try to navigate her cancer care.	metaphorical	1
Simple Tips On How to Battle Diabetes	metaphorical	1
Research suggests the contagion can get deep into our vascular system and even our brains – so how does the virus attack?	metaphorical	1
Cancer was the kind of wake-up call I needed.	metaphorical	1
Another feature of cancer cells' interactions in culture is that their growth tends to be disorganized	metaphorical	1
the mRNA is then transported to the cytoplasm and translated into protein	literal	0
It was the next day when the world was warned about the mysterious syndrome affecting children with suspected coronavirus	metaphorical	1
The difference between neoplasms are indeed demonstrated only too clearly by their varied responses to chemotherapy	literal	0
I’ve never quite gotten it together.	metaphorical	1
uncontrolled growth	metaphorical	1
Dissemination consists in the transportation of intravasated cancer elements. With increasing size of cancer elements in transit, traffic is governed more and more by the rules of embolization.	metaphorical	1
the sheer complexity of this multistep tumor-host interaction	metaphorical	1
the occurrence of mechanical trapping prior to the dangerous transcapillary passage ...	metaphorical	1
I felt like to see that there is the potential for growth from the crisis.	metaphorical	1
Ground-breaking work on synthetic organ transplants made Paolo Macchiarini one of the most famous doctors in the world	metaphorical	1
I thank God for the friends and family in my life who support me.	literal	0
When high blood pressure attack	metaphorical	1
Much like Covid-19 that has been found to disproportionally kill and infect black and brown people, Kawasaki disease is also prevalent among African Americans	literal	0
The first portion of the molecule, the untranslated leaer, is not a protein coding sequence.	literal	0
the identification of open reading frames	literal	0
tumor cells must migrate through	metaphorical	1
Gaga has also told Paper magazine that she has clinical depression and	metaphorical	1
Tyler Smith , was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease in 2013 and had a transplant from his cousin in 2018, who is now the British and European men's physique bodybuilding champion	literal	0
growth control mechanisms	literal	0
the encoded protein information	metaphorical	1
This variability of entry into S phase probably is a barrier to chemotherapy by cycle phase-specific drugs	metaphorical	1
The mechanism mainly responsible for repairing UV lesions appears to be almost error-free, but othr proposed repair mechanisms make errors relatively frequently;	literal	0
When “cheeky” Oliver Darlington came down with cold-like symptoms, his parents assumed it was nothing to worry about	literal	0
certain tumours...have shown to have a great capacity to repair radiation damage	literal	0
members of the oncogene group that rescues cells from senescence	literal	0
I focus on healthy living. Most of what my family and I eat is not bought from the grocery story.	literal	0
Lymphocytes...fall into three classes - B cells, T cells, and null cells - on the basis of ontogeny and function.	literal	0
This inter-receptor communication represents another mechanism for regulation of cellular response patterns	literal	0
Cell motility is necessary for tumor cells to traverse many stages in the complex cascade of invasion.	metaphorical	1
Insulin gene expression seems to be regulated via cellular second messengers	literal	0
It was a different world ... a warped time zone.	metaphorical	1
Mintz and Fleischman have suggested that	metaphorical	1
Antonio Cassano shows improvement after suspected stroke	literal	0
This is a site for teaching simple concepts to younger children. This was one of the more	literal	0
But the emotional side of cancer and of BC in particular is the real killer—it strangles and shocks your soul	metaphorical	1
The irreversibility and	literal	0
the initiated cell survives	metaphorical	1
if the antibody or ligand is coupled to a toxic agent, it may selectively kill the tumor cells in the metastatic foci.	literal	0
there are two copies of the genome in every somatic cell	metaphorical	1
cells have the capacity to call upon an adaptive, coordinated, defense mechanism when assaulted by cyclotoxins	metaphorical	1
Similarly spectacular recoveries have now been recorded in many different kinds of cancer, including extremely aggressive forms like acute myeloid leukaemia	metaphorical	1
I am such a fighter	metaphorical	1
Losing my hair is really, really a small price to pay for my life.	metaphorical	1
Whereas B cells can recognize antigen alone, T cells recognize antigen in association with MHC molecules	literal	0
It also notes there is some, albeit very limited evidence, that such of adults catching the disease from children	literal	0
Undermethylated DNA usually is transcriptionally active;	literal	0
the role of various breaks in natural barriers to infection ... The skin represents an important barrier	metaphorical	1
using these antibodies coupled to other, more toxic reagents to fashion a magic bullet that would seek out tumor cells and destroy them uniquely, leaving uninjured the cells to which they did not bind.	metaphorical	1
cells equipped with the capacities of survival and proliferation	metaphorical	1
A limited number of antibodies have also been developed that recognize tumor antigens unique to...	literal	0
The cell bodies of the neurons are found in the dorsal root ganglia - for the face - and the trigeminal ganglia for the rest of the body	literal	0
gag- or env-onc fusion products may serve to contribute to transforming potential by misdirecting an oncogene product to an improper cellular location	literal	0
I couldn’t absorb what was going on.	metaphorical	1
The message is to prevent and control diabetes	literal	0
Wayne Brady described his battle with depression and	metaphorical	1
These cells...are extremely large...and contain large stores of gene transcription and mRNA translation machinery.	metaphorical	1
The relation of triplet codons to their respective amino acids is known as the genetic code.	literal	0
The process of metastasis is not random. Instead, it is a cascade of linked sequential steps that must be traversed by tumor cells if a metastasis is to develop.	metaphorical	1
The oncogene may provide a constitutive signal that perhaps initiates a cascade of subordinate functions out of sync with the normal events.	metaphorical	1
I just felt like I was in the right place.	metaphorical	1
the two-step generation of malignancies	metaphorical	1
the intricate processes by which cells communicate	metaphorical	1
such functional but sterile cells will nor appear different from fertile cells	literal	0
the cell's genetic apparatus	literal	0
the growth regulatory mechanisms	metaphorical	1
These investigators speculated that tumors pick up some of the injected antibodies nonspecifically.	metaphorical	1
I’ve learned to take things a bit more lightly.	metaphorical	1
after a single dose of radiation, the surviving tumor cells...	literal	0
NHS Blood and Transplant figures show about 3,000 lifesaving transplants were missed in the last year	literal	0
I had no choice but to stay up ... but one day I was kinda down.	metaphorical	1
And for me PTSD stole the latter half of my 30s from me: it stole my career, it stole my chances at finding the right partner it stole my ability to eat and to sleep, and it stole my mind	metaphorical	1
A variation of this technique known as random priming uses a randomly generated set of six base-pair oligonucleotides as primers to generate labeled DNA of very high specific activity.	literal	0
the mechanism of tumor cell killing appears to be an	metaphorical	1
Their surface adhesion or anchorage requirement is changed	literal	0
I could claim that as a choice instead of say that I have to.	literal	0
She said it has ended a close relationship with a mental health nurse who had helped her over the last year to recover from an anxiety attack	literal	0
Typically cell membranes have proteins mixed within their cell membranes, therefore a cell surface will be more bumpy than smooth, a cobblestone if you will.	metaphorical	1
cells...their ability to grow to much higher cell densities	metaphorical	1
But in some cases, the tests may detect old particles of the virus	literal	0
I don’t let the little things bother me anymore, and I appreciate so much more than I ever did.	literal	0
The immune system attacks cancers using activated T cells	metaphorical	1
the ability of a carcinogenic agent to initiate cells may depend on the capacity of the cell to metabolize the agent to its ultimate carcinogenic form	literal	0
our player Lucy Kerr has been battling cancer over the past months, she'd gone through so much and has been so incredibly brave and strong	metaphorical	1
During the course of invasion, the same tumour cell mus interact with a variety of extracellular matrix proteins as it traverses each tissue barrier.	metaphorical	1
She then discovered that she had a tumour between her rectum and her uterus, but before doctors could operate, she finally conceived	metaphorical	1
And I knew right then that I would do whatever it took to get through whatever was headed my way.	metaphorical	1
The enzyme RNA polymerase copies or transcribes genes that encode proteins into RNA using monomeric nucleotides similar to, but with subtle differences from, the four nucleotides present in DNA.	literal	0
I had my appendix out and I remember I came round out of the anaesthetic screaming, the pain was something else.	literal	0
different factors are involved in the mechanisms of different types of cancer	literal	0
This result could be based on the poorer communication of tumor cells with their environments and with neighboring cells	metaphorical	1
its rapidly developing drug resistance	literal	0
Genes that are transcribed into mRNA are translated into the cytoplasm into proteins by a translation system that deciphers the amino acid sequence encoded in the mRNA trnascript.	literal	0
A woman who survived aggressive cancer said thieves who took her family's caravan had also	metaphorical	1
Maybe we could culture the bugs from the mums to purposefully colonise the babies in other words, a scientifically controlled version of vaginal seeding	metaphorical	1
cell-cell interactions	metaphorical	1
cytotoxic killer cells and lymphokine activated killer cells	literal	0
I be low then I be high it’s like a battle knife to a gun fight no need to worry it’s the story of my life blood sugar	metaphorical	1
a large number of these hypoxic cells might in fact be doomed	metaphorical	1
The mammalian cell is taught and explained in many K-12 classes as well as in college. From my vantage point they are explained with 10-20 essential parts. This simplification is necessary in the learning process to prime students' minds about the subject. But this framework misses something. Mammalian cells, as they occur in real life, are extremely complicated dynamic entities. To get a feel for actually may be occurring, a stadium metaphor may be helpful. Visualize a football stadium on game day; it is a huge structure with ten of thousands of people coming and going some sitting, some moving. Some the activity is highly structured, the game itself and the fans sitting in the seats. Some of the activity is unstructured. Penalties in the game and fans getting drunk and starting fights. The key point is that there are thousand of movements within the confined and structured space of the stadium. This crudely approximates the dynamic physiology of a mammalian cell.	metaphorical	1
the resistance of normal cartilage	metaphorical	1
Naomi Alderman tells the story of Paul Ehrlich's cure for syphilis and his 'magic bullet' approach using targeted treatments that hit the disease and not the patient	metaphorical	1
Cancer chemotherapy and radiotherapy can estroy the body's immune defenses in hurting immunologically important cells but also breaking the barriers represented by skin and mucous membranes.	literal	0
Organisms responsible for bacteremia in profoundly neutropenic patients may be found colonizing various body sites before development of bacteremia	metaphorical	1
The best exercise to control high blood pressure seems to be virtually any exercise....Get up and get going!	literal	0
what did i think all my normal little cells were doing after being hit by a sledgehammer of both toxic chemicals and radiation	metaphorical	1
study the sisters in the hope that they would reveal vital clues about the cause of the disease	literal	0
cells...and their progeny	literal	0
I felt on top of things.	metaphorical	1
Synthesis of the message is initiated from a promoter region in the DNA	metaphorical	1
members of the tyrosine kinase family of growth factor receptors	literal	0
cancer may involve a multistep process	literal	0
Her husband fell critically ill, too, spending 17 days in an intensive care	metaphorical	1
receptors that function as transducers of the signal...	literal	0
the parental tumor	metaphorical	1
She and my dad had cancer at the same time. She survived. He didn't.	literal	0
My husband couldn’t get a grip on it for quite a while.	metaphorical	1
Shuttling blood sugar into the cells	metaphorical	1
neoplastic stem cells in a GO state present a major obstacle to any chemotherapy based on selectively killing only growing, cycling cells.	literal	0
maturation > adult cell > cell death	literal	0
This change renders T cells blind to the tumor	metaphorical	1
Cassano, who has remained at the Policlinico facility where he was taken for tests after falling ill, was reportedly joking with team-mates on the plane, before suddenly developing problems with his vision, speech and movement	literal	0
...which is lethal for S-phase cells	metaphorical	1
Diabetes for breakfast tomorrow yay	metaphorical	1
In order to colonize the ectopic site, the tumor cells must have left the first capillary arrest site in the lungs and travaled to the ectopic site.	metaphorical	1
some tumors have managed to escape immune detection	metaphorical	1
It was a new role for me.	metaphorical	1
spontaneous tumors	metaphorical	1
This left her needing high doses of painkillers which left her unable to eat or d	metaphorical	1
My blood sugar plays funny little tricks on me	metaphorical	1
Synthesis of the message is initiated from a promoter region in the DNA, and the primary RNA transcript consists of series of coding and noncoding regions	metaphorical	1
The disease has taught me many things about myself.	metaphorical	1
I think of it in metaphorical terms as an alarm.	metaphorical	1
Karolinska University Hospital stopped Macchiarini's work in November 2013, but he continued to perform the transplants as part of a clinical trial in Russia	literal	0
the homing of lymphocytes to the specialised endothelium of lymph nodes	metaphorical	1
How each cell---maintains its cellular function through its life	literal	0
second messengers	literal	0
I feel such a failure that I am not winning this battle.	metaphorical	1
This virally coded	metaphorical	1
The body has adapted defence mechanisms to protect itself against the entry of microorganisms	metaphorical	1
the role of immune surveillance that might explain the apparent suppression of initiated cells. it is suggested that UVR affects Langerhans' cells, which are antigen-presenging cells in the epidermis and the most superficial sentinel of the immune system.	metaphorical	1
the induction of cancer by three types of physical agents: ionizing radiation, ultraviolet radiation, and foreign bodies and fibers.	literal	0
I have just lost my dear wife of 54 years to the cruel disease that is Alzheimer's	metaphorical	1
Stop! you’ll give me diabetes...	metaphorical	1
...it is likely that gene control ... involves complex feedback mechanisms	literal	0
the multistep nature of cancer	metaphorical	1
cells have the capacity to call upon an adaptive, coordinated, defense mechanism when assaulted by cyclotoxins. once this program is turned on by one agent, it appears to be effective against others. Such a system may protect normal cells against environmental assault, but in cancer patients it appears to protect neoplastic cells against chemotherapeutic agents, which are also derived from environmental sources.	metaphorical	1
the growth and maturation of normal tissues	literal	0
tumor cells penetrate the epithelial basement membrane and enter the underlying interstitial stroma	metaphorical	1
My cells need a little more nurturing right now.	metaphorical	1
Actually, beer IS good for lowering high blood pressure	literal	0
Both lambda phage and cosmid libraries are useful for	metaphorical	1
failure to govern the cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells	metaphorical	1
If I’d needed a transplant as part of my treatment, I might have become -infertile as a result	literal	0
Clealy, more genetic information is spanned when cosmid libraries are used.	literal	0
human cells become senescent	metaphorical	1
Doctors, who performed an MRI scan, also found the youngster had lung cancer	literal	0
As tumours grow, cell birth must exceed cell death	metaphorical	1
I wasn’t prepared for the impact it would have on me.	metaphorical	1
tumor-cell dissemination	literal	0
The main rationale in current cancer chemotherapy is to try to kill cancer cells selectively by virtue of their greater growth fraction	metaphorical	1
The cells disregard one another and are seen as dense colonies in which cells cross over one another	metaphorical	1
Imagine a crowded rock concert. You are directly in front of the stage, but your cute date is stuck behind an enormous mass of moving people. As your date pushes and squeezes through the crowd, you worry about other attractive fans stealing your date's attention. Will your date make it through all those packed people? Believe it or not, this is an important question in cellular biology!	metaphorical	1
this problem is an important one for devising	literal	0
Normal cells may be able to continue proliferation in culture only for a limited number of generations	metaphorical	1
the regional lymph node does not function as a true mechanical barrier to tumor dissemination	metaphorical	1
the complexity of factors affecting the fate of the blood-borne cancer cells	metaphorical	1
I chose to get chemotherapy because it was a choice of mine.	literal	0
cellulase is an enzyme that breaks down cellulose. It does this by breaking the bonds between the glucose monomers that constitute this naturally occurring polymer. In practice is usually a mixture of several molecules acting together. To mix this metaphor, it could be a	metaphorical	1
He wanted to do an imaging test just to be certain that all problematic areas were detected.	metaphorical	1
Hypertension is a silent killer	metaphorical	1
drug transport [of cells]	literal	0
[of DNA molecules] head-to-head or head-to-tail joining also may occur	literal	0
brush-and-spray-like configuration [cancer cells]	metaphorical	1
[of cancer elements] Their further fate depends on various factors	metaphorical	1
[of tumors] their intrinsic aggressiveness	metaphorical	1
[Metastasis] is the process whereby tumour cells escape from the primary and spread to distant sites via the blood and/or lymphatic circulation, or by movement through coelomic spaces, evading or withstanding adverse conditions such as haemodynamic forces and immune attack and then colonise and grow in specific secondary organs.	literal	0
Reverse transcriptase: An enzyme produced by retroviruses that makes complementary DNA (cDNA) copies of RNA. The process is called reverse transcription	literal	0
The RNA copy of DNA that is destined to form protein molecules is called messenger RNA (mRNA)	literal	0
Although T cells were initially subtyped by functions (helper, suppressor, cytotoxic), it has now been possible to identify two major T cell subsets, ...	literal	0
This [the adult cell] has a finite lifespan that usually is short	literal	0
parental strand [of DNA]	literal	0
[each gene] has a unique function in cellular metabolism	literal	0
[certain cells] can kill tumor cells but have no memory and no antigen-specific tumor recognition capacity.	metaphorical	1
At a metastatic site these cells can be expected to display one of the following modes of behavior: (a) they die; (b) they survive without further activity; (c) they multiply; (d) they multiply and invade	literal	0
untranslated region (U)	literal	0
Another possible mechanism of action of tumour promoters ... is the inhibition of intercellular communication (metabolic cooperation) between cells in culture	literal	0
In my online research, Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) was always included in my search results.	literal	0
People have been [trying] for the past 20 years to piece together how treating patients with arsenic results in the death of leukaemia cells. We have added a major piece to that puzzle.	metaphorical	1
...the action of a chemical, physical, or biologic agent that alters in an irreversible manner the heritable structure(s) of the cell	literal	0
Another possible mechanism of action of tumor promoters...is the inhibition of intercellular communication (metabolic cooperation) between cells in culture	literal	0
if they [cells] are starved for a nutrient	metaphorical	1
Due to the potential trapping function of their capillary nets, lung, liver, and bone marrow operate as filter organs and key disseminating sites of hematogeneous spread [...] thus, it [the liver] cannot be considered as first metastatic target or as filter or key organ for spread of this type of gastric carcinoma (or can any other organ!)	metaphorical	1
The initial 5' portion of the RNA transcript usually does not encode amino acid sequence information and consequently is known as untranslated (UT) leader	literal	0
It [a metastatic tumour cell] must then enter the circulation, survive in the circulation, arrest at the distant vascular bed, extravasate into the organ interstitium and parenchyma, and multiply to initiate a metastatic colony	metaphorical	1
Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) was the second place I called.	literal	0
And [Cancer] it has transported me to a place.	metaphorical	1
It [the cell] may divide, giving rise to one or more generations of daughter cells before some or all of the progeny become sterile. These colonies in which some reproductively viable progeny emerge may then regrow	metaphorical	1
The mechanism by which the normal p 21 product (expressed from the normal allele) and its intrinsic GTPase activity influence the signal transduction properties of the activated oncogene product is not yet understood	literal	0
Hi! I also have a strong family history of breast cancer (my mother, maternal aunts (two), maternal grandmother, and maternal great-aunt). My mother and I have tested negative for BRCA mutation. We likely have another unidentified mutation. I understand how hard it can be to decide where to go from here.	metaphorical	1
My first encounter with breast cancer came in 2010, when I was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or stage 0 breast cancer.	literal	0
two of its main activities [of the plasma membrane] are selective transport of molecules into and out of the cell	literal	0
(related to cancer) you battle on	metaphorical	1
Specific therapy against the causative organism [bacteria] should then be initiated, using an agent [antibiotic] shown to be active.	literal	0
I have always told them [the children] not to worry, but the truth is I carry a “faulty” gene, BRCA1, which sharply increases my risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer.	literal	0
It [Cancer] kinds brings ... it brought me to the kind of ... the edge of the abyss.	metaphorical	1
Some guests are polite and work with the host house to keep the house in order and running well (Mutualism). Some guest come in have a wild party reproduce like crazy and then break the walls down on the way out (HIV). There are many types of houses and many types of guest as indicated by the linked wiki article.	metaphorical	1
“In neurodegenerative disorders [such as Parkinson’s], there is no such evidence, so no logic to doing this”	literal	0
Cell eats (phagocytosis) = person eats; Cell drinks (pinocytosis) = person drinks; Cell dies ( necrosis ) = person dies ( mortality); Cell has age = person has ageCellhas job = person has jobCellcan kill (infection) = person can kill ( murder)Cellrespire oxygen in = person can inhale O2Cellrespite co2 out = person can exhale CO2 ; Cell can egest = person can egest; Cell can become fat (hypertrophy) = person can become fat (obesity); Cell can become slim (atrophy) = person can become slimCellcan move (diapedesis) = person can moveCellcan float or swim = person can swimCellcan reproduce = person can reproduceCellhas mother (stem cell) = person has mother; Cell can become a criminal (tumour cell) = a person can be a criminal; Cell has enemy cells = person has enemy person; Cell has environment = person has environment; Cell communicate with each other = person communicate with each other; Some of adjectives analogy Good cell= good person Bad cell= bad person; Thin cell= thin person; Fat cell= fat person; Cell can produce = person can invent or design new things; Cell can remember (plasmacellor memory cells ) = person can remember; Cell can act as police = person can act as police; Cell can stretch = person can stretch; Cell can grow = person can grow; Cell use energy = person use energy; Cell uses weapon = person uses weapon	metaphorical	1
[AIDS] the role of immunideficiency in cancer development	literal	0
Energy Conversion is what it's all about. These 2 things convert energy from one from to another. Windmills convert wind energy to mechanical energy. Fuel cells convert potential chemical energy stored in hydrogen(or methanol or methane) and oxygen into actual electrical energy. For a windmill to produce mechanical energy the wind needs to keep flowing, for a fuel cell to produce electricity, it needs the hydrogen and oxygen to keep flowing through it system.	metaphorical	1
each clonal population had a metastatic colonisation potential (MCP)	literal	0
The decoding [translation] is performed by transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules that recognize the specific nucleotide codon information and provide the appropriate amino acid for linking to the growing polypeptide chain.	literal	0
As long as the part which one tolerates [that is, the margin of error] is small, the solution is quite correct and the person arriving at it is quite skilled. Therefore, artful conjecturing in medicine is similar	literal	0
The protruding pseudopodia may serve multiple functions, including (1) acting as	metaphorical	1
their [cancer cells'] chance of survival	literal	0
(of a person who has cancer) I have learned to let the little things go.	literal	0
In eukaryotes, the enzyme RNA polymerase II (RNA pol II) copies (transcribes) genes (DNA sequences) into messenger RNA (mRNA)	metaphorical	1
their [blood-borne cancer cells'] best chance of survival	literal	0
It [the cell] may divide, giving rise to one or more generations of daughter cells before some or all of the progeny become sterile	metaphorical	1
[of cancer drugs]: we shall discuss the methods now used to screen potential new agents for activity.	literal	0
the two-step process of carcinogenesis in vivo requires a promoter such as phorbol ester (TPA)	literal	0
many old established [cell] lines	literal	0
(related to cancer) ready for battle	metaphorical	1
only if one assumes that the target cell population (i.e., stem cells) is much smaller ...	metaphorical	1
But the emotional side of cancer and of BC [breast cancer] in particular is the real killer—it strangles and shocks your soul.	metaphorical	1
Also it [the online forum] allows me to leave a record for my family, showing them how much I love them and how much I am fighting to stay with them for as long as possible.	literal	0
(related to cancer) do battle	metaphorical	1
Assuming that a library of large minichromosomes could be generated, how could they be ordered? [and then two approaches are suggested]	metaphorical	1
(related to cancer) sharpening my weapons in case I have to do battle	metaphorical	1
somehow they [growth factors] pass a signal through the cytoplasm to activate nuclear, DNA-related functions	literal	0
A molecular diagnostic test (RT-PCR) to detect coronavirus in respiratory samples was developed very early by the Central Virology Laboratory	literal	0
its [the tumor cell's] ability to produce a large number of progeny	metaphorical	1
The size of these seeds [of metastases]	metaphorical	1
A related technique, called the polymerate chain reaction (PCR), uses specific primers to copy and amplify a specific DNA sequence.	literal	0
“It’s a little molecular switch [on the cell’s surface],” he said. “If you switch it on it does two things – it induces the cells to die, but it also provokes the body’s immune response to destroy the cancer.”	metaphorical	1
