He absorbed the knowledge or beliefs of his tribe.	metaphorical	1
He absorbed the costs for the accident.	metaphorical	1
The sales tax is absorbed into the state income tax.	metaphorical	1
The immigrants were quickly absorbed into society.	metaphorical	1
Her interest in butterflies absorbs her completely.	metaphorical	1
This boss abuses his workers.	literal	0
Don't abuse the system.	metaphorical	1
The actress abused the policeman who gave her a parking ticket.	metaphorical	1
Her husband often abuses alcohol.	metaphorical	1
Can you accommodate me with a rental car?	literal	0
This hotel can accommodate 250 guests	literal	0
The scientists had to accommodate the new results with the existing theories	literal	0
The program committee acknowledged the submission of the authors of the paper	literal	0
He never acknowledges his colleagues when they run into him in the hallway	literal	0
We must acknowledge the kindness she showed towards us	literal	0
acknowledge the deed	literal	0
The Crown Prince was acknowledged as the true heir to the throne	literal	0
Permit me to acquaint you with my son.	literal	0
You should acquaint yourself with your new computer.	literal	0
Please acquaint your colleagues of your plans to move.	literal	0
think before you act	literal	0
She acts in this play	literal	0
You should act like an adult	literal	0
She acts as the chair	metaphorical	1
This scene acts well	metaphorical	1
He addressed the crowd outside the window.	literal	0
He always addresses me with `Sir'.	literal	0
You must adhere to the rules.	metaphorical	1
They adhered to their plan.	literal	0
The residents of this village adhered to Catholicism.	metaphorical	1
Will this wallpaper adhere to the wall?	literal	0
administer a program	literal	0
administer the last unction	literal	0
administer critical remarks to everyone present	literal	0
He admitted his errors	literal	0
We cannot admit non-members into our club building	literal	0
admit someone to the profession	literal	0
This problem admits of no solution	metaphorical	1
The French doors admit onto the yard	literal	0
This ticket will admit one adult to the show	literal	0
Will the new rules affect me?	literal	0
the medicine affects my heart rate	literal	0
This new ruling affects your business	literal	0
The death of his wife caused him to age fast	literal	0
we age every day--what a depressing thought!	literal	0
The death of his child aged him tremendously	literal	0
We agreed on the terms of the settlement	literal	0
She agreed to all my conditions	literal	0
The two stories don't agree in many details	literal	0
Subjects and verbs must always agree in English	literal	0
White wine doesn't agree with me	metaphorical	1
No two of my colleagues would agree on whom to elect chairman	literal	0
Please don't aim at your little brother!	literal	0
I aim to arrive at noon	metaphorical	1
He aimed his fists towards his opponent's face	literal	0
She wanted to aim a pun	metaphorical	1
This show will air Saturdays at 2 P.M.	metaphorical	1
We cannot air this X-rated song	literal	0
She aired her opinions on welfare	metaphorical	1
air the old winter clothes	literal	0
We don't allow dogs here	literal	0
Mandela was allowed few visitors in prison	literal	0
I allow for this possibility	literal	0
The camera store owner allowed me $50 on my old camera	literal	0
Her action amounted to a rebellion	literal	0
"The bills amounted to $2,000"	literal	0
This idea will never amount to anything	metaphorical	1
I was analyzed in Vienna by a famous psychiatrist.	literal	0
She didn't want to answer	literal	0
The steering of my new car answers to the slightest touch	metaphorical	1
answer the telephone	literal	0
The question concerning the meaning of life cannot be answered	literal	0
The defendant answered to all the charges of the prosecution	literal	0
She must answer for her actions	literal	0
A few words would answer	literal	0
The drawing of the suspect answers to the description the victim gave	literal	0
This may answer her needs	literal	0
He was found guilty but appealed immediately.	literal	0
Appeal to somebody for help!	metaphorical	1
She appealed the verdict.	literal	0
He suddenly appeared at the wedding	literal	0
Did your latest book appear yet?	literal	0
Gielgud appears briefly in this movie	literal	0
He had to appear in court last month	literal	0
Do you appreciate the full meaning of this letter?	literal	0
The yen appreciated again!	literal	0
The Germans want to appreciate the Deutsche Mark	literal	0
We were approaching our destination	literal	0
Winter is approaching	literal	0
I was approached by the President to serve as his adviser in foreign matters	literal	0
We ascended the mountain.	literal	0
Inheritance may not ascend linearly.	metaphorical	1
She ascended to the throne after the King's death.	literal	0
The boat ascended the Delaware.	literal	0
The path ascended to the top of the hill.	literal	0
I asked about their special today	literal	0
She asked him for a loan	literal	0
He is asking $200 for the table	literal	0
We were assigned new uniforms.	literal	0
The teacher assigned him to lead his classmates in the exercise.	literal	0
The biologist assigned the mushroom to the proper class.	literal	0
Immigrants often want to assimilate quickly	literal	0
This country assimilates immigrants very quickly	literal	0
The nasal assimilates to the following consonant	literal	0
I assume his train was late	literal	0
When will the new President assume office?	literal	0
He assumes the lotus position	literal	0
He assumed to himself the right to fill all positions in the town	literal	0
"She assumed indifference, even though she was seething with anger"	literal	0
This is the day when May was assumed into heaven	literal	0
"Hitler attacked Poland on September 1, 1939 and started World War II"	literal	0
The editors of the left-leaning paper attacked the new House Speaker	metaphorical	1
The Serbs attacked the village at night	literal	0
I attacked the problem as soon as I got out of bed	metaphorical	1
The cancer cells are attacking his liver	literal	0
She attends class regularly	literal	0
Menuhin's playing was attended by a 15-minute standing ovation	literal	0
She attends the old lady in the wheelchair	literal	0
The children in the audience attended the recital quietly	literal	0
His high fever attested to his illness	metaphorical	1
I attest this signature	literal	0
This word is not attested until 1993	literal	0
Let's avoid a confrontation.	literal	0
Muslims avoid tobacco during the day.	literal	0
back into the driveway	literal	0
back the car into the parking spot	literal	0
back this enterprise	literal	0
My garage backs their yard	literal	0
Which horse are you backing?	metaphorical	1
Can you back up your claims?	literal	0
The DMZ begins right over the hill	literal	0
The number `one' begins the sequence	literal	0
The novel begins with a murder	literal	0
This economic measure doesn't even begin to deal with the problem of inflation	literal	0
I believed his report	literal	0
I believe that he will come back from the war	literal	0
"When you hear his sermons, you will be able to believe, too"	literal	0
You cannot believe this man	literal	0
This book belongs to me	literal	0
This student somehow doesn't belong	literal	0
Where do these books belong?	literal	0
The whales belong among the mammals	literal	0
They belong to the same political party	literal	0
the uniform looks like it belonged to a museum collection	literal	0
The Turks besieged Vienna	literal	0
She was besieged by so many problems that she got discouraged	metaphorical	1
The press photographers besieged the movie star	literal	0
The Chinese would bind the feet of their women.	literal	0
They bind their books in leather.	literal	0
The hydrogen binds the oxygen.	literal	0
She tended to blast when speaking into a microphone	metaphorical	1
the air conditioning was blasting cold air at us	literal	0
blast a passage through the mountain	literal	0
blast a tunnel through the Alps	literal	0
the gunman blasted away	literal	0
Meteors blazed across the atmosphere.	metaphorical	1
He blazed away at the men.	metaphorical	1
The summer sun alone can cause a pine to blaze.	literal	0
The spaceship blazed out into space.	metaphorical	1
She blended the nuts and raisins together.	literal	0
This flavor will blend with those in your dish.	literal	0
The colors blend well.	literal	0
Her feet blistered during the long hike.	literal	0
The Senator blistered the administration in his speech on Friday.	metaphorical	1
The tight shoes and perspiration blistered her feet.	literal	0
The haze blurs the hills	literal	0
The fog blurs my vision	literal	0
The distinction between the two theories blurred	metaphorical	1
her rucksack bobbed gently on her back	literal	0
The boys bobbed down the hill screaming with pleasure	literal	0
Bernice bobs her hair these days!	literal	0
She bolted from her seat	literal	0
The listeners bolted when he discussed his strange ideas	literal	0
Don't bolt your food!	metaphorical	1
The tax cut will boost the economy.	metaphorical	1
Boost the voltage in an electrical circuit.	literal	0
The singer had to be boosted onto the stage by a special contraption.	literal	0
Mosquitoes buzzing in my ear really bothers me	literal	0
Don't bother the professor while she is grading term papers	literal	0
The mere thought of her bothered him and made his heart beat faster	literal	0
The rubber ball bounced	literal	0
He bounced to his feet	literal	0
The ex-boxer's job is to bounce people who want to enter this private club	metaphorical	1
He bowed before the King	literal	0
The government bowed to the military pressure	metaphorical	1
He bowed before the King	literal	0
She bowed before the Queen	literal	0
I can breathe better when the air is clean	literal	0
Every creature that breathes	literal	0
He breathed new life into the old house	metaphorical	1
Our new synthetic fabric breathes and is perfect for summer wear	metaphorical	1
She breathes the Christian spirit	metaphorical	1
This rare Bordeaux must be allowed to breathe for at least 2 hours	metaphorical	1
Johnson brushed the hairs from his jacket	literal	0
He brushed the wall lightly	literal	0
She brushed the suit before hanging it back into the closet	literal	0
Her long skirt brushed the floor	literal	0
brush away the crumbs	literal	0
brush the bread with melted butter	literal	0
Suspense was building right from the beginning of the opera	literal	0
The government is building new schools in this state	literal	0
build a modern nation	literal	0
These architects build in interesting and new styles	literal	0
build a defense on nothing but the accused person's reputation	literal	0
This sum will buy you a ride on the train	literal	0
She wanted to buy his love with her dedication to him and his work	literal	0
I can't buy this story	metaphorical	1
bees were buzzing around the hive	literal	0
Planes buzzed the crowds in the square	literal	0
This office is buzzing with activity	metaphorical	1
he buzzed the servant	metaphorical	1
capture the essence of Spring	metaphorical	1
She captured all the men's hearts	metaphorical	1
This nucleus has captured the slow-moving neutrons	literal	0
She challenged his claims	literal	0
Fischer challenged Spassky to a match	literal	0
The illegal immigrant was challenged by the border guard	literal	0
Father had to learn how to change the baby	literal	0
She changed completely as she grew older	literal	0
her mood changes in accordance with the weather	literal	0
Would you change places with me?	literal	0
She changed in Chicago on her way to the East coast	literal	0
His voice began to change when he was 12 years old	literal	0
everybody cheered the birthday boy	literal	0
She tried to cheer up the disappointed child when he failed to win the spelling bee	literal	0
The crowd cheered the demonstrating strikers	literal	0
This letter is being circulated among the faculty.	literal	0
Blood circulates in my veins.	literal	0
The fan circulates the air in the room.	literal	0
She circulates among royalty.	metaphorical	1
He claimed that he killed the burglar	literal	0
He claimed his suitcases at the airline counter	literal	0
They claimed on the maximum allowable amount	literal	0
the accident claimed three lives	literal	0
he clamored for justice and tolerance	literal	0
The delegates clamored their disappointment	metaphorical	1
They clamored the mayor into building a new park	literal	0
The judge clapped him in jail	metaphorical	1
The big bird clapped its wings	literal	0
The children were clapping to the music	literal	0
the wings of the birds clapped loudly	literal	0
clap two boards together	literal	0
They clawed their way to the top of the mountain.	metaphorical	1
She clawed the doorknob.	metaphorical	1
The politician clawed his rival.	metaphorical	1
The dentist cleaned my teeth	literal	0
clean grain before milling it	literal	0
clean up before you see your grandparents	literal	0
This stove cleans easily	literal	0
The other players cleaned him completely	literal	0
The boys cleaned the sandwich platters	literal	0
Did you ever climb up the hill behind your house?	literal	0
Sales were climbing after prices were lowered	metaphorical	1
The path climbed all the way to the top of the hill	metaphorical	1
This young man knows how to climb the social ladder	metaphorical	1
prices climbed steeply	metaphorical	1
The leaves clog our drains in the Fall	literal	0
horses were clogged until they were tamed	metaphorical	1
The market is being clogged by these operations	metaphorical	1
Fear clogged her mind	metaphorical	1
The stars are obscured by the clouds.	literal	0
The smoke clouded above the houses.	literal	0
Their faces were clouded with sadness.	metaphorical	1
The stroke clouded memories of her youth.	metaphorical	1
The chemical clouded the liquid to which it was added.	metaphorical	1
The church members co-opted individuals from similar backgrounds to replenish the congregation	literal	0
We co-opted the independent minority tribes by pulling them into the Northern Alliance	literal	0
The army tried to co-opt peasants into civil defence groups	literal	0
He co-opted the criticism and embraced it	literal	0
The child colored the drawings	literal	0
My personal feelings color my judgment in this case	metaphorical	1
His political ideas color his lectures	metaphorical	1
color the walls with paint in warm tones	literal	0
She committed herself to the work of God	literal	0
"After the second episode, she had to be committed"	literal	0
commit a random act of kindness	literal	0
Please communicate this message to all employees	literal	0
He communicated his anxieties to the psychiatrist	literal	0
communicate a disease	literal	0
The rooms communicated	metaphorical	1
He and his sons haven't communicated for years	literal	0
John compared his haircut to his friend's	literal	0
This car does not compare with our line of Mercedes	literal	0
We can compare the Han dynasty to the Romans	literal	0
Greed and ambition composed his personality	metaphorical	1
Beethoven composed nine symphonies	literal	0
She had to compose herself before she could reply to this terrible insult	literal	0
Our office is fully computerized now.	literal	0
Please use a computerized disctionary.	literal	0
They computerized the car industry	literal	0
We condemn the racism in South Africa	literal	0
The building was condemned by the inspector	literal	0
His devotion to his sick wife condemned him to a lonely existence	metaphorical	1
Her strange behavior condemned her	literal	0
He was condemned to ten years in prison	literal	0
the county condemned the land to build a highway	literal	0
condense the contents of a book into a summary	literal	0
The cold air condensed the steam	literal	0
Her feelings condensed	metaphorical	1
All our planets condensed out of the same material	literal	0
Congress condensed the three-year plan into a six-month plan	literal	0
You cannot conduct business like this	literal	0
conduct an orchestra; Barenboim conducted the Chicago symphony for years	literal	0
Bernstein conducted Mahler like no other conductor	literal	0
his story confirmed my doubts	literal	0
The witnesses confirmed the victim's account	literal	0
The Senate confirmed the President's candidate for Secretary of Defense	literal	0
the children were confirmed in their mother's faith	literal	0
You must confront your opponent	literal	0
You must confront your problems	literal	0
We confronted him with the evidence	literal	0
The child screamed when he confronted the man in the Halloween costume	literal	0
These questions confuse even the experts.	literal	0
The constant attention of the young man confused her.	literal	0
Her remarks confused the debate.	literal	0
consider the possibility of moving	literal	0
You must consider her age	literal	0
They considered the possibility of a strike	literal	0
Please consider your family	literal	0
The companies consolidated	literal	0
consolidate one's gains	literal	0
The town and county schools are being consolidated	literal	0
The mud had consolidated overnight	literal	0
consolidate fibers into boards	literal	0
The United States were constitutionalized in the late 18th century	literal	0
A good way of exercising is to constitutionalize	literal	0
A woman's right to an abortion was constitutionalized in the 1970's	literal	0
construct an equilateral triangle	literal	0
construct a sentence	literal	0
construct an argument	literal	0
The fire consumed the building	metaphorical	1
this car consumes a lot of gas	literal	0
The effort to pass the exam consumed all his energy	literal	0
We continued to work into the night	literal	0
The bad weather continued for two more weeks	literal	0
We cannot continue several servants any longer	literal	0
We continued our research into the cause of the illness	literal	0
The demonstration continued after a break for lunch	literal	0
The crowd converged on the movie star.	literal	0
Social forces converged to bring the Fascists back to power.	metaphorical	1
The comedian convulsed the crowd	metaphorical	1
earthquakes convulsed the countryside	literal	0
The spasm convulses her facial muscles	literal	0
The muscles in her face convulsed	literal	0
My husband doesn't cook	literal	0
These potatoes have to cook for 20 minutes	literal	0
The apothecary cooked the medicinal mixture in a big iron kettle	literal	0
engineers will work to correct the effects or air resistance	literal	0
the stock market corrected	metaphorical	1
The new contact lenses will correct for his myopia	literal	0
Can you count the books on your shelf?	literal	0
The toddler could count to 100	literal	0
The academy counts several Nobel Prize winners among its members	literal	0
I can count my colleagues in the opposition	literal	0
each answer counts as three points	literal	0
you can count on me to help you any time	metaphorical	1
The crocodile was crawling along the riverbed	literal	0
My skin crawled--I was terrified	metaphorical	1
The old cheese was crawling with maggots	metaphorical	1
European children learn the breast stroke; they often don't know how to crawl	literal	0
We credited her for saving our jobs	literal	0
She was not properly credited in the program	literal	0
We credit your account with $100	literal	0
The prince was crowned in Westminster Abbey	literal	0
The speech crowned the meeting	metaphorical	1
A weather vane crowns the building	metaphorical	1
crush an aluminum can	literal	0
The car crushed the toy	literal	0
She was crushed by his refusal of her invitation	metaphorical	1
The plastic bottle crushed against the wall	literal	0
The meeting culminated in a tearful embrace.	metaphorical	1
Seurat culminated pointillism.	metaphorical	1
The helmet culminated in a crest.	literal	0
The cigar smoke curled up at the ceiling.	metaphorical	1
She curled farther down under the covers.	metaphorical	1
"Curl my hair, please."	literal	0
The young girl danced into the room.	literal	0
My husband and I like to dance at home to the radio.	literal	0
The children danced with joy.	literal	0
She dashed into the yard	literal	0
He dashed the plate against the wall	literal	0
dashed ambitions and hopes	metaphorical	1
dashed by the refusal	metaphorical	1
blue paint dashed with white	literal	0
The package is dated November 24	literal	0
Scientists often cannot date precisely archeological or prehistorical findings	literal	0
She wrote the letter on Monday but she dated it Saturday so as not to reveal that she procrastinated	literal	0
It dawned on him that she had betrayed him	metaphorical	1
The age of computers had dawned	metaphorical	1
"It started to dawn, and we had to get up"	literal	0
The band debuts a new song or two each month	literal	0
"The new ballet that debuts next months at Covent Garden, is already sold out"	literal	0
This young soprano debuts next month at the Metropolitan Opera	literal	0
We finally decided after lengthy deliberations	literal	0
The case was decided	literal	0
This new development finally decided me!	literal	0
The vote in New Hampshire often decides the outcome of the Presidential election	literal	0
He declared that he needed more money to carry out the task he was charged with	literal	0
The President declared war	literal	0
He declared that he was innocent	literal	0
She was declared incompetent	literal	0
Do you have anything to declare?	literal	0
His wife declared at once for moving to the West Coast	literal	0
he declined to join the group on a hike	literal	0
The roof declines here	literal	0
"in many languages, speakers decline nouns, pronouns, and adjectives"	literal	0
deflate the air mattress	literal	0
The bad review of his work deflated his self-confidence	metaphorical	1
The new measures deflated the economy	metaphorical	1
deflate the currency	metaphorical	1
The balloons deflated	literal	0
the heat deformed the plastic sculpture	literal	0
The sidewalk deformed during the earthquake	literal	0
His body was deformed by leprosy	literal	0
You should carry dehydrated food on your camping trip.	literal	0
All this exercise and sweating has dehydrated me.	literal	0
"In the desert, you get dehydrated very quickly."	literal	0
The victim's family is demanding compensation	literal	0
The bank demanded payment of the loan	literal	0
I demand an explanation	literal	0
Her smile denoted that she agreed	literal	0
`multi-' denotes `many' 	literal	0
She denoted her feelings clearly	literal	0
These news depressed her	literal	0
The glut of oil depressed gas prices	metaphorical	1
The lack of rain had depressed the water level in the reservoir	metaphorical	1
The rising inflation depressed the economy	literal	0
The mother deserted her children	literal	0
"If soldiers deserted Hitler's army, they were shot"	literal	0
the students deserted the campus after the end of exam period	literal	0
This room is not designed for work.	literal	0
Chanel designed the famous suit.	literal	0
It is difficult to design a better mousetrap.	literal	0
Dupont designs for the house of Chanel.	literal	0
She designed a good excuse for not attending classes that day.	metaphorical	1
She designed to go far in the world of business.	literal	0
Fire had devoured our home	metaphorical	1
She devoured his novels	metaphorical	1
he devoured three sandwiches	literal	0
I cannot digest milk products	literal	0
I cannot digest all this information	metaphorical	1
Protein digests in a few hours	literal	0
the government digested the entire law into a code	metaphorical	1
The painting discolored.	literal	0
The detergent discolored my shirts.	literal	0
The shirts discolored.	literal	0
She dismissed his advances	literal	0
This case is dismissed!	literal	0
I was dismissed after I gave my report	literal	0
The acid distills at a specific temperature	literal	0
distill the essence of this compound	literal	0
The doctor distilled a few drops of disinfectant onto the wound	literal	0
distill the essence of this compound	literal	0
The acid distills at a specific temperature	literal	0
The doctor distilled a few drops of disinfectant onto the wound	literal	0
divide the cake into three equal parts	literal	0
Can you divide 49 by seven?	literal	0
The mountain range divides the two countries	literal	0
The population doubled within 50 years	literal	0
He doubled and vomited violently	literal	0
She doubles as his wife and secretary	literal	0
He downed three martinis before dinner.	metaphorical	1
Some people can down a pound of meat in the course of one meal.	metaphorical	1
The policeman downed the heavily armed suspect.	metaphorical	1
Three secretaries were downsized during the financial crisis.	metaphorical	1
The car makers downsized the SUVs when fuel became very expensive.	metaphorical	1
The company downsized its research staff.	literal	0
The rain water drains into this big vat.	literal	0
The exercise class drains me of energy.	metaphorical	1
We drained the oil tank.	literal	0
Life in the camp drained him.	metaphorical	1
snow drifting several feet high	literal	0
stock prices are drifting higher	metaphorical	1
My son drifted around for years in California before going to law school	metaphorical	1
The unknown young man drifted among the invited guests	metaphorical	1
drift the boats downstream	literal	0
drift the cattle herds westwards	literal	0
The stock market drifted upward	metaphorical	1
The patient must drink several liters each day	literal	0
We were up drinking all night	literal	0
The mother drinks in every word of her son on the stage	metaphorical	1
The husband drinks and beats his wife	literal	0
I was drowned in work	metaphorical	1
She drowned her trouble in alcohol	metaphorical	1
The child drowned in the lake	literal	0
He drowned the kittens	literal	0
Age had dulled the surface	literal	0
the varnished table top dulled with time	literal	0
Too much cutting dulls the knife's edge	literal	0
Middle age dulled her appetite for travel	metaphorical	1
No dumping in these woods!	literal	0
The company dumped him after many years of service	metaphorical	1
The truck dumped the garbage in the street	literal	0
He eased himself into the chair	literal	0
ease the pain in your legs	literal	0
The news eased my conscience	literal	0
She was eating a banana	literal	0
We did not eat until 10 P.M. because there were so many phone calls	literal	0
This dog doesn't eat certain kinds of meat	literal	0
"Suddenly, the proprietor emerged from his office"	literal	0
Some nice results emerged from the study	metaphorical	1
He felt new emotions emerge	literal	0
She ended their friendship when she found out that he had once been convicted of a crime.	literal	0
This sad scene ended the movie.	literal	0
The terrible news ended our hopes that he had survived.	literal	0
engraved the trophy cupt with the winner's	literal	0
The event engraved itself into her memory	metaphorical	1
engrave the pen with the owner's name	literal	0
The Turks erased the Armenians in 1915	metaphorical	1
Please erase the formula on the blackboard--it is wrong!	literal	0
Who erased the files form my hard disk?	literal	0
Unrest erupted in the country	metaphorical	1
The tooth erupted and had to be extracted	metaphorical	1
Vesuvius erupts once in a while	literal	0
A rash erupted on her arms after she had touched the exotic plant	metaphorical	1
The convicted murderer escaped from a high security prison	literal	0
We escaped to our summer house for a few days	metaphorical	1
Gas escaped into the bedroom	literal	0
Schliemann excavated Troy.	literal	0
Carnegie had a lake excavated for Princeton University's rowing team.	literal	0
The mining company wants to excavate the hillside.	literal	0
The bad results were excluded from the report	literal	0
The cost for the trip excludes food and beverages	literal	0
The unruly student was excluded from the game	literal	0
Please excuse my dirty hands	literal	0
Please excuse me from this class	literal	0
Your need to sleep late does not excuse your late arrival at work	literal	0
excuse someone's behavior	literal	0
"In some states, criminals are executed"	literal	0
The Mafioso who collaborated with the police was executed	literal	0
execute the decision of the people	literal	0
execute a will or a deed	literal	0
The President executed the treaty	literal	0
This kind of work exhausts me.	literal	0
One should not exhaust one's savings.	metaphorical	1
We have exhausted the food supplies.	metaphorical	1
The meteorologists are expecting rain for tomorrow	literal	0
We were expecting a visit from our relatives	literal	0
I'm expecting a full explanation as to why these files were destroyed	literal	0
She is expecting in March	literal	0
We exploded the nuclear bomb	literal	0
The champagne bottle exploded	literal	0
The boss exploded when he heard of the resignation of the secretary	metaphorical	1
The enemy exploded the bridge	literal	0
He exploit the new taxation system	literal	0
we must exploit the resources we are given wisely	literal	0
he is exploiting the students	literal	0
Can you express this distance in kilometers?	literal	0
Many of the laboratory animals express the trait.	metaphorical	1
Italians express coffee rather than filter it.	literal	0
She expressed the letter to Florida.	literal	0
The two sofas face each other.	literal	0
Turn and face your partner now.	metaphorical	1
A glossy material faced the lapels of the jacket.	metaphorical	1
The building was faced with beautiful stones.	metaphorical	1
a quantum computer can factor the number 15	literal	0
make things factor into a company's profitability	literal	0
You must factor in the recent developments	literal	0
He fastened the lock onto the door.	literal	0
This dress fastens in the back.	literal	0
They fastened various nicknames to each other.	metaphorical	1
I fear she might get aggressive	literal	0
I fear the winters in Moscow	literal	0
I fear I won't make it to your wedding party	literal	0
I fear the results of the final exams	literal	0
The Middle East is fermenting	metaphorical	1
Islam is fermenting Africa	metaphorical	1
We ferment the grapes for a very long time to achieve high alcohol content	literal	0
fill the child with pride	metaphorical	1
The pool slowly filled with water	literal	0
The liquid fills the container	literal	0
He filled up on turkey	literal	0
He finished the dishes	literal	0
The carpenter finished the table beautifully	literal	0
That finished me with Mary	literal	0
The boss fired his secretary today	literal	0
The soldiers were fired	literal	0
Oil fires the furnace	literal	0
This piece won't fit into the puzzle	literal	0
He fitted other pieces of paper to his cut-out	literal	0
Can you fit the toy into the box?	literal	0
How does this shirt fit?	literal	0
flags flapped in the strong wind	literal	0
The bird flapped its wings	literal	0
The bird's wings were flapping	literal	0
Every star seemed to flare with new intensity.	metaphorical	1
The bellbottom pants flare out.	literal	0
The night sky flared with the massive bombardment.	metaphorical	1
The lights were flashing	literal	0
The headlines flashed on the screen	literal	0
The latest intelligence is flashed to all command posts	metaphorical	1
he flashed a $100 bill	metaphorical	1
A shooting star flashed and was gone	literal	0
The lights flicked on and off.	literal	0
He flicked a piece of paper across the table.	literal	0
The father flicked him with his hand.	metaphorical	1
He floated the logs down the river	literal	0
The Republicans are floating the idea of a tax reform	metaphorical	1
The dancer floated across the stage	metaphorical	1
The government floated the ruble for a few months	metaphorical	1
The swollen river flooded the village	literal	0
flood the market with tennis shoes	metaphorical	1
Our basement flooded during the heavy rains	literal	0
The crowd flowed out of the stadium	metaphorical	1
Water flowed into the cave	literal	0
The artist flowed the washes on the paper	metaphorical	1
The champagne flowed at the wedding	metaphorical	1
The garbage flushed down the river	literal	0
the sky flushed with rosy splendor	metaphorical	1
flush the wound with antibiotics	metaphorical	1
social groups form everywhere	literal	0
This wall forms the background of the stage setting	metaphorical	1
form the young child's character	metaphorical	1
the water formed little beads	literal	0
This writer really fractures the language.	metaphorical	1
These events could fracture the balance of power.	metaphorical	1
The pothole fractured a bolt on the axle.	literal	0
The tibia fractured from the blow of the iron pipe.	literal	0
"fuel aircraft, ships, and cars"	literal	0
The tanker fueled in Bahrain	literal	0
fuel the debate on creationism	metaphorical	1
The press was gagged	metaphorical	1
The burglars gagged the home owner and tied him to a chair	literal	0
The students were gagging during dinner	literal	0
he swallowed a fishbone and gagged	literal	0
The home team was gaining ground	literal	0
The stock market gained 24 points today	literal	0
the peace movement gained momentum	literal	0
She gained 20 pounds when she stopped exercising	literal	0
He was galloping down the road	literal	0
The horse was galloping along	literal	0
Did you gallop the horse just now?	literal	0
I gather you have not done your homework.	metaphorical	1
She gathered her shawl around her shoulders.	literal	0
Our ancestors gathered nuts in the Fall.	literal	0
The girl glared at the man who tried to make a pass at her	literal	0
The moon glared back at itself from the lake's surface	metaphorical	1
The sun glared down on us	metaphorical	1
The fireflies were glowing and flying about in the garden	literal	0
Her face glowed when she came out of the sauna	metaphorical	1
The coals were glowing in the dark	literal	0
Make the people's hearts glow	metaphorical	1
His belief in God governs his conduct	literal	0
Who is governing the country now?	literal	0
most transitive verbs govern the accusative case in German	metaphorical	1
The passenger grabbed for the oxygen mask	literal	0
She grabbed the child's hand and ran out of the room	literal	0
This story will grab you	metaphorical	1
The conversation gravitated towards politics	metaphorical	1
Boys gravitate towards girls at that age	literal	0
The stars gravitate towards each other	literal	0
grind the spices in a mortar	literal	0
grind designs into the glass bowl	literal	0
grind lenses for glasses and cameras	literal	0
She groped for her glasses in the darkness of the bedroom	literal	0
His mind groped to make the connection	metaphorical	1
He made some sexual advances at the woman in his office and groped her repeatedly	literal	0
The tree trunks had grown together	literal	0
Corn doesn't grow here	literal	0
He grows vegetables in his backyard	literal	0
There will be men guarding the horses.	literal	0
Please guard my possessions while I'm away.	literal	0
This vaccine will guard you against infection.	metaphorical	1
The cooling lava continued to gutter toward lower ground.	metaphorical	1
Tears guttered down her face.	metaphorical	1
The heavy rain guttered the soil.	metaphorical	1
The roofer began to gutter the buildings.	literal	0
I can't hack it anymore	metaphorical	1
he hacked his way through the forest	literal	0
I'm not very good at hacking but I'll give it my best	literal	0
The patient with emphysema is hacking all day	literal	0
The critics hailed the young pianist as a new Rubinstein	literal	0
She hails from Kalamazoo	literal	0
It hailed for an hour	literal	0
The colors don't harmonize	metaphorical	1
harmonize the different interests	literal	0
harmonize one's goals with one's abilities	metaphorical	1
where is she heading	literal	0
Who is heading this project?	literal	0
The procession was headed by John	metaphorical	1
This student heads the class	metaphorical	1
These rivers head from a mountain range in the Himalayas	metaphorical	1
The list was headed by the name of the president	literal	0
The wheat headed early this year	metaphorical	1
He heaped him with work	metaphorical	1
heap firewood around the fireplace	literal	0
heap the platter with potatoes	literal	0
Everyone helped out during the earthquake	literal	0
These pills will help the patient	literal	0
This will help to prevent accidents	literal	0
I can't help myself--I have to smoke	literal	0
"I served him three times, and after that he helped himself"	literal	0
This money will help the development of literacy in developing countries	literal	0
She helped herself to some of the office supplies	literal	0
New slipcovers will help the old living room furniture	metaphorical	1
Goering often hunted wild boars in Poland	literal	0
The hunters traced the deer into the woods	literal	0
They hunted the unwanted immigrants out of the neighborhood	literal	0
The oscillator hunts about the correct frequency	metaphorical	1
She hunted for her reading glasses but was unable to locate them	metaphorical	1
The King used to hunt these forests	literal	0
This exercise will hurt your back	literal	0
Our business was hurt by the new competition	literal	0
She hurt me when she did not include me among her guests	metaphorical	1
Were you hurting after the accident?	literal	0
Great heat can ignite almost any dry matter	literal	0
Marsh gases ignited suddenly	literal	0
The ostentatious way of living of the rich ignites the hatred of the poor	metaphorical	1
only few plants can immigrate to the island	literal	0
Britain immigrated many colonists to America	literal	0
Many people immigrated at the beginning of the 20th century	literal	0
This child impressed me as unusually mature	literal	0
The young chess player impressed her audience	literal	0
"To make a batik, you impress a design with wax"	literal	0
He inclined his ear to the wise old man	literal	0
She inclined her head to the student	literal	0
She inclines to the view that people should be allowed to expres their religious beliefs	metaphorical	1
Their language inclines us to believe them	metaphorical	1
The list includes the names of many famous writers	literal	0
I include you in the list of culprits	literal	0
We must include this chemical element in the group	literal	0
These symptoms indicate a serious illness	literal	0
indicated his wishes in a letter	literal	0
Tetracycline is indicated in such cases	literal	0
There was a ceremony to induct the president of the Academy.	literal	0
We were inducted into the honor society.	literal	0
The young geisha was inducted into the ways of her profession.	literal	0
Your children have infected you with this head cold	literal	0
society was infected by racism	metaphorical	1
His laughter infects everyone who is in the same room	metaphorical	1
The charges were inflated	metaphorical	1
The war inflated the economy	metaphorical	1
inflate the currency	metaphorical	1
I informed him of his rights	literal	0
The principles that inform modern teaching	literal	0
She had informed on her own parents for years	literal	0
I inherited a castle from my French grandparents	literal	0
The new chairman inherited many problems from the previous chair	literal	0
I inherited my good eyesight from my mother	literal	0
We injected the glucose into the patient's vein	literal	0
He injected new life into the performance	metaphorical	1
inject hydrogen into the balloon	literal	0
We interrupt the program for the following messages	literal	0
Don't interrupt me when I'm reading	literal	0
Please don't interrupt me while I'm on the phone	literal	0
She interrupted her pregnancy	metaphorical	1
Why did the U.S. not intervene earlier in WW II?	literal	0
This interludes intervenes between the two movements	metaphorical	1
The war intervened between the birth of her two children.	metaphorical	1
A new word processor was introduced	literal	0
introduce exotic fruits	literal	0
introduce legislation	literal	0
"Hitler invaded Poland on September 1, 1939"	literal	0
This new colleague invades my territory	literal	0
The cancer had invaded her lungs	literal	0
Can I invite you for dinner on Sunday night?	literal	0
I invited them to a restaurant	literal	0
We invited the neighbors in for a cup of coffee	literal	0
The organizers invite submissions of papers for the conference	literal	0
Don't involve me in your family affairs!	literal	0
This decision involves many changes	literal	0
Dinner at Joe's always involves at least six courses	literal	0
His story completely involved me during the entire afternoon	literal	0
The situation was rather involved	literal	0
The driver jammed the brake pedal to the floor	literal	0
the mechanism jammed	literal	0
the theater was jampacked	metaphorical	1
He joined the Communist Party as a young man	literal	0
join these two parts so that they fit together	literal	0
She joined him for a drink	literal	0
The two roads join here	literal	0
juggle an account so as to hide a deficit	metaphorical	1
She had to juggle her job and her children	metaphorical	1
the player juggled the ball	literal	0
We were keyed after the locks were changed in the building	metaphorical	1
His new Mercedes was keyed last night in the parking lot	literal	0
key one's actions to the voters' prevailing attitude	metaphorical	1
The boy kicked the dog.	literal	0
The gun kicked back into my shoulder.	metaphorical	1
He kicked the extra point after touchdown.	literal	0
He kited many checks	metaphorical	1
The businessman kited millions of dollars	metaphorical	1
The pilot kited for a long time over the mountains	literal	0
The bird landed on the highest branch	literal	0
the pilot managed to land the airplane safely	literal	0
this may land you in jail	metaphorical	1
The drug smugglers landed the heroin on the beach of the island	literal	0
He landed several blows on his opponent's head	literal	0
The ship landed in Pearl Harbor	literal	0
the enemy landed several of our aircraft	literal	0
lay the books on the table	literal	0
lay the foundation for a new health care plan	metaphorical	1
This hen doesn't lay	literal	0
lay a responsibility on someone	metaphorical	1
The news were leaked to the paper	metaphorical	1
The news leaked out despite his secrecy	metaphorical	1
Water leaked out of the can into the backpack	literal	0
The container leaked gasoline	literal	0
She leaned over the banister	literal	0
He leaned his rifle against the wall	literal	0
We can lean on this man	metaphorical	1
Her presence lends a certain cachet to the company	literal	0
I will lend you my car	literal	0
This story would lend itself well to serialization on television	metaphorical	1
level criticism or charges at somebody	metaphorical	1
The building was levelled	literal	0
I have to level with you	metaphorical	1
The ground levelled off	literal	0
She lied when she told me she was only 29.	literal	0
The fate of Bosnia lies in the hands of the West.	metaphorical	1
Lie down on the bed until you feel better.	literal	0
the conversation lightened me up a bit	metaphorical	1
she lightened the load on the tired donkey	literal	0
"after a glass of wine, he lightened up a bit"	metaphorical	1
The room lightened up	literal	0
She likes to read Russian novels	literal	0
How did you like the President's speech last night?	literal	0
I'd like a beer now!	literal	0
trees line the riverbank	literal	0
sorrow had lined his face	metaphorical	1
lined books are more enduring	literal	0
People lived in Africa millions of years ago	literal	0
we had to live frugally after the war	literal	0
You must accept yourself and others if you really want to live	literal	0
load the truck with hay	literal	0
He loaded his gun carefully	literal	0
load the bags onto the trucks	literal	0
Can you locate your cousins in the Midwest?	literal	0
Our sense of sight enables us to locate objects in space.	literal	0
The company located some of their agents in Los Angeles.	literal	0
Lock the bike to the fence!	literal	0
The therapist noticed that the patient's knees tended to lock in this exercise.	literal	0
He locked his hands around her neck.	metaphorical	1
They were locked in embrace.	metaphorical	1
He was locked in a laughing fit.	metaphorical	1
She locked her jewels in the safe.	literal	0
She looked over the expanse of land	literal	0
The child looks unhappy	literal	0
We looked all day and finally found the child in the forest	literal	0
The house looks north	metaphorical	1
She looked her devotion to me	literal	0
You don't look your age!	literal	0
The bicycle looped around the tree.	metaphorical	1
The stunt pilot looped his plane.	metaphorical	1
He looped the watch through his belt.	literal	0
map the surface of Venus	literal	0
We haven't even begun to map the many galaxies that we know exist	literal	0
sorrow was mapped on the mother's face	metaphorical	1
The Japanese marched their prisoners through Manchuria	literal	0
He marched into the classroom and announced the exam	literal	0
They marched the mules into the desert	literal	0
The company matched the employees' contributions.	literal	0
This job doesn't match my dreams.	literal	0
Let them match their best athletes against ours.	literal	0
The two pieces match.	literal	0
You never understand what I mean!	literal	0
The water shortage means that we have to stop taking long showers.	literal	0
These flowers were meant for you.	literal	0
Age and experience mellowed him over the years	literal	0
"With age, he mellowed"	literal	0
These apples need to mellow a bit more	metaphorical	1
The wax melted in the sun	literal	0
The sun melted the ice	literal	0
Hundreds of actors were melting into the scene	metaphorical	1
her resistance melted under his charm	metaphorical	1
I missed that remark	literal	0
He misses his mother	literal	0
I missed the concert	literal	0
How could I miss that typo?	literal	0
She missed her train	literal	0
The arrow missed the target	literal	0
The child had been missing for a week	literal	0
"Fortunately, I missed the hurricane"	literal	0
John moderated the discussion	literal	0
moderate your alcohol intake	literal	0
He moderated his tone when the students burst out in tears	literal	0
The furniture molded in the old house	literal	0
She molded the rice balls carefully	literal	0
The dress molds her beautiful figure	metaphorical	1
They mounted the aerator on a floating	literal	0
mount slides for macroscopic analysis	literal	0
mount a campaign against pornography	metaphorical	1
mount a theater production	metaphorical	1
She nags her husband all day long	literal	0
nagging concerns and doubts	metaphorical	1
she nagged to take a vacation	literal	0
They named their son David	literal	0
Many senators were named in connection with the scandal	literal	0
She was named Head of the Committee	literal	0
name your accomplices!	literal	0
His name was mentioned in connection with the invention	literal	0
negociate securities	literal	0
The hiker negociated the high mountain pass	metaphorical	1
The parties negociated all night	literal	0
The treaty neutralized the small republic	metaphorical	1
Her optimism neutralizes his gloom	metaphorical	1
She neutralized the solution	literal	0
He nodded his approval	literal	0
The teacher nodded when the student gave the right answer	literal	0
The old man was nodding in his chair	literal	0
the flowers were nodding in the breeze	metaphorical	1
The old man sat nodding by the fireplace	literal	0
She noted that someone was following her	literal	0
Take note of this chemical reaction	literal	0
she noted everything the teacher said that morning	literal	0
offset deposits and withdrawals	literal	0
His skills offset his opponent's superior strength	literal	0
offset the conference proceedings	literal	0
We oppose the ban on abortion	literal	0
The senator said he would oppose the bill	literal	0
The board opposed his motion	literal	0
The King ordained the persecution and expulsion of the Jews.	literal	0
He was ordained in the Church.	literal	0
The minister was ordained only last month.	literal	0
We had to orient ourselves in the forest	literal	0
The dean of students tries to orient the freshmen	literal	0
a magazine oriented towards young people	literal	0
he painted all day in the garden	literal	0
We painted the rooms yellow	literal	0
He painted his mistress many times	literal	0
Her violent feelings palpitated the young woman's heart	metaphorical	1
His nostrils palpitated	literal	0
His heart palpitated	literal	0
paste the sign on the wall	literal	0
He pasted his opponent	metaphorical	1
paste the wall with burlap	literal	0
He peeped at the woman through the window.	literal	0
He peeped his head through the window.	metaphorical	1
The new moon peeped through the tree tops.	metaphorical	1
The bullet penetrated her chest.	literal	0
The hikers did not manage to penetrate the dense forest.	literal	0
She was rather perturbed by the news that her father was seriously ill	literal	0
The electrons were perturbed by the passing ion	metaphorical	1
The orbits of these stars were perturbed by the passings of a comet	metaphorical	1
Fundamental Islamicists threaten to perturb the social order in Algeria and Egypt	metaphorical	1
"piece the broken pieces of thread, slivers, and rovings"	literal	0
He pieced at the sandwich all morning	metaphorical	1
She pieced the china cup	literal	0
The cold pierced her bones.	metaphorical	1
The scream pierced the night.	metaphorical	1
The needle pierced her flesh.	literal	0
The child was pinned under the fallen tree	literal	0
pin the needle to the shirt	literal	0
pin down the butterfly	literal	0
The bugs pinged the lamp shade	literal	0
the car pinged when I put in low-octane gasoline	literal	0
the bullet pinged when they struck the car	literal	0
I'll ping my accountant--April 15 is nearing	metaphorical	1
ping your machine in the office	literal	0
The demonstrators plastered the hallways with posters	literal	0
She plastered warnings all over the wall	literal	0
plaster the broken arm	literal	0
I pleaded with him to stop.	literal	0
She was pleading insanity.	literal	0
She pleaded not guilty.	literal	0
These colors please the senses	literal	0
he could do many things if he pleased	literal	0
The waiters around her aim to please	literal	0
I pledge that I will honor my wife	literal	0
I pledged $10 a month to my favorite radio station	literal	0
I was pledged to silence	literal	0
the stock market plunged	literal	0
She plunged at it eagerly	literal	0
The professor plunged his students into the study of the Italian text	metaphorical	1
It plunged to the bottom of the well	literal	0
poison someone's mind	metaphorical	1
She poisoned her husband	literal	0
Her husband poisoned her drink in order to kill her	literal	0
This mushrooms can poison	literal	0
She poisoned her husband but he did not die	literal	0
the captain ported the ship at night	literal	0
The ship finally ported	literal	0
The big ship was slowly porting	literal	0
The small canoe could be ported easily	literal	0
We were porting all in the club after dinner	metaphorical	1
The book portrays the actor as a selfish person	literal	0
"Goya wanted to portray his mistress, the Duchess of Alba"	literal	0
The father is portrayed as a good-looking man in this painting	literal	0
This poses an interesting question	metaphorical	1
We don't know the woman who posed for Leonardo so often	literal	0
She posed as the Czar's daughter	literal	0
the salesman pounded the door knocker	literal	0
The locks pound the water of the canal	metaphorical	1
The prisoners are safely pounded	metaphorical	1
pound the cows so they don't stray	literal	0
pound the roots with a heavy flat stone	literal	0
They poured water over the floor.	literal	0
People were pouring out of the theater.	metaphorical	1
Water poured all over the floor.	literal	0
We poured money into the education of our children.	metaphorical	1
Put on your rain coat -- it's pouring outside!	metaphorical	1
Stone tools precede bronze tools	literal	0
Most English adjectives precede the noun they modify	literal	0
Bill preceded John in the long line of Susan's husbands	literal	0
She always precedes her lectures with a joke	literal	0
The crisis precipitated by Russia's revolution	metaphorical	1
Our economy precipitated into complete ruin	metaphorical	1
The bridge broke and precipitated the train into the river below	metaphorical	1
The predicate `dog' is predicated of the subject `Fido' in the sentence `Fido is a dog'	literal	0
The speech predicated the fitness of the candidate to be President	literal	0
solving the problem is predicated on understanding it well	literal	0
preserve the peace in the family	metaphorical	1
We preserve these archeological findings	literal	0
preserve the forest and the lakes	literal	0
The nurse pricked my finger to get a small blood sample	literal	0
The needle pricked his skin	literal	0
The dog pricked up his ears	literal	0
The thought of her unhappiness pricked his conscience	metaphorical	1
The results of the elections were still being processed when he gave his acceptance speech	literal	0
He was warned that the district attorney would process him	metaphorical	1
They processed into the dining room	literal	0
He was processed by the sheriff	literal	0
The tree would not produce fruit	literal	0
We produce more cars than we can sell	literal	0
This procedure produces a curious effect	literal	0
The proud father produced many pictures of his baby	literal	0
The Bordeaux region produces great red wines	literal	0
She professes organic chemistry	literal	0
The terrorists professed allegiance to their country	literal	0
The teacher professed that he was not generous when it came to giving good grades	literal	0
she professed herself as a nun	literal	0
He professed innocence but later admitted his guilt	literal	0
The genes propagate these characteristics to the offspring.	literal	0
Sound and light propagate in this medium.	literal	0
Sound or light can be propagated through air.	literal	0
This great civilization was propagated throughout the land.	literal	0
We provided the room with an electrical heater	literal	0
The hostess provided lunch for all the guests	literal	0
The will provides that each child should receive half of the money	literal	0
He provides for his large family by working three jobs	literal	0
provide for the proper care of the passengers on the cruise ship	literal	0
The sudden fame puffed her ego	metaphorical	1
The critics puffed up this Broadway production	metaphorical	1
A puffing kind of man	metaphorical	1
Her faced puffed up from the drugs	literal	0
he huffed and puffed as he made his way up the mountain	literal	0
He pumped bullets into the dummy.	metaphorical	1
The athlete pumps weights in the gym.	literal	0
She pumped the witnesses for information.	metaphorical	1
He pushed the table into a corner	literal	0
"`Now push hard,' said the doctor to the woman"	literal	0
He pushed her to finish her doctorate	metaphorical	1
The salesman is aggressively pushing the new computer model	metaphorical	1
she pushed against the wall with all her strength	literal	0
She is pushing fifty	metaphorical	1
The liberal party pushed for reforms	metaphorical	1
The guy hanging around the school is pushing drugs	metaphorical	1
The crowd pushed forward	literal	0
That song put me in awful good humor	literal	0
I wouldn't put it that way	literal	0
She put too much emphasis on her the last statement	metaphorical	1
We put the time of arrival at 8 P.M.	literal	0
He put her to the torture	literal	0
put these words to music	literal	0
I put these memories with those of bygone times	literal	0
He quoted the Bible to her.	literal	0
He quoted prices for cars.	literal	0
He said he could quote several instances of this behavior.	literal	0
The sun radiates heat	literal	0
She radiates happiness	metaphorical	1
spokes radiate from the hub of the wheel	literal	0
Heat radiated from the metal box	literal	0
The police raided the crack house	literal	0
The pirates raided the coastal villages regularly	literal	0
T. Boone Pickens raided many large companies	literal	0
Our babysitter raided our refrigerator	metaphorical	1
rail in the old graves	metaphorical	1
rail off the crowds from the Presidential palace	literal	0
fresh fruit are railed from Italy to Belgium	literal	0
They railed from Rome to Venice	literal	0
hundreds of miles were railed out here	literal	0
They are railing for fresh fish	metaphorical	1
The ramped auditorium	metaphorical	1
the lion is rampant in this heraldic depiction	literal	0
The roses ramped over the wall	literal	0
Estimates for the losses in the earthquake range as high as $2 billion.	literal	0
rationalize the child's seemingly crazy behavior	metaphorical	1
We rationalized the factory's production and raised profits	literal	0
"When one wonders why one is doing certain things, one should rationalize"	literal	0
This function can be rationalized	literal	0
Government reaches out to the people	metaphorical	1
Our advertisements reach millions	literal	0
The sunlight reached the wall	literal	0
The ambassador was recalled to his country	literal	0
She was recalled by a loud laugh	literal	0
The company recalled the product when it was found to be faulty	literal	0
recall the defective auto tires	literal	0
She could not recapture that feeling of happiness.	metaphorical	1
The author recaptures an old idea here.	literal	0
The military forces managed to recapture the fort.	literal	0
They tried to recapture the escaped prisoner.	literal	0
He was recast as Iago.	literal	0
The bell cracked and had to be recast.	literal	0
She had to recast her image to please the electorate in her home state.	literal	0
The party recruited many new members.	literal	0
The lab director recruited an able crew of assistants.	literal	0
They recruited new soldiers.	literal	0
The enemy redoubled their screaming on the radio	literal	0
The noise doubled and redoubled	literal	0
The screaming redoubled	literal	0
Fame redounds to the heroes.	metaphorical	1
Everything redounded to his glory.	metaphorical	1
Her efforts will redound to the general good.	metaphorical	1
They reenacted the battle of Princeton	literal	0
Congress reenacted the law	literal	0
She reenacted what had happened earlier that day	literal	0
There were lots of questions referring to her talk	literal	0
This plant can be referred to a known species	literal	0
refer a patient to a specialist	literal	0
Christians refer to the mother of Jesus as the Virgin Mary	literal	0
refine one's style of writing	literal	0
refine a design or pattern	literal	0
many valuable nutrients are refined out of the foods in our modern diet	literal	0
refine a method of analysis	literal	0
This action reflects his true beliefs	metaphorical	1
Sound is reflected well in this auditorium	literal	0
Drive carefully--the wet road reflects	literal	0
her sunglasses reflected his image	literal	0
His lack of interest in the project reflects badly on him	metaphorical	1
The mess in his dorm room reflects on the student	metaphorical	1
reform a political system	literal	0
The Church reformed me	metaphorical	1
reform the health system in this country	literal	0
The lazy student promised to reform	literal	0
Did this event register in your parents' minds?	literal	0
register for an election	literal	0
Did you register any change when I pressed the button?	literal	0
Her surprise did not register	literal	0
I'd like to register this letter	literal	0
the land rejuvenated	literal	0
The contact with his grandchildren rejuvenated him	literal	0
The old man rejuvenated when he became a grandfather	literal	0
The witness related the events.	metaphorical	1
How are these two observations related?	literal	0
She relates well to her peers	literal	0
He relaxed in the hot tub	literal	0
relax the tension on the rope	literal	0
A hot bath always relaxes me	literal	0
our new colleague relaxed when he saw that we were a friendly group	literal	0
The government relaxed the curfew after most of the rebels were caught	metaphorical	1
The rules relaxed after the new director arrived	metaphorical	1
I can't remember saying any such thing	literal	0
he remembered how he used to pick flowers	literal	0
He remembered her in his will	literal	0
remember me in your prayers	literal	0
"After the shelling, many people lost the ability to remember"	literal	0
We remembered the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz	literal	0
The taxes were remitted	literal	0
God will remit their sins	literal	0
The pain finally remitted	literal	0
She repaired her TV set	literal	0
One can never fully repair the suffering and losses of the Jews in the Third Reich	literal	0
He repaired to his cabin in the woods	metaphorical	1
He replaced the old razor blade	literal	0
Smith replaced Miller as CEO after Miller left	literal	0
replace the book on the shelf after you have finished reading it	literal	0
the con artist replaced the original with a fake Rembrandt	literal	0
Dozens of incidents of wife beatings are reported daily in this city	literal	0
I report to work every day at 9 o'clock	literal	0
One student reported the other to the principal	literal	0
Snow reported on China in the 1950's	literal	0
I reported her to the supervisor	literal	0
These philosophers reposed the law in the people	literal	0
Mao reposes in his mausoleum	literal	0
The nation reposed its confidence in the King	literal	0
reseat the old broken chair	literal	0
reseat Carnegie Hall	literal	0
The usher insisted on reseating us	literal	0
restore the forest to its original pristine condition	literal	0
The week at the spa restored me	literal	0
restore law and order	literal	0
This soil retains water	literal	0
The landlord retained the security deposit	literal	0
I cannot retain so much information	literal	0
They car companies retrofitted all the old models with new carburetors	literal	0
The mansion was retrofitted with modern plumbing	literal	0
The laboratory retrofitted to meet the safety codes	literal	0
let's review your situation	literal	0
She reviews books for the New York Times	literal	0
I reviewed the material before the test	literal	0
she reviewed her achievements with pride	literal	0
The doctors revived the comatose man	literal	0
A hot soup will revive me	metaphorical	1
Interest in ESP revived	metaphorical	1
He revived this style of opera	literal	0
right a wrongs done to the victims of the Holocaust	literal	0
They righted the sailboat that had capsized	literal	0
The capsized boat righted again	literal	0
The curtain ripped from top to bottom.	literal	0
The tornado ripped along the coast.	metaphorical	1
The candidate ripped into his opponent mercilessly.	metaphorical	1
this plant roots quickly	literal	0
The problem roots in her depression	metaphorical	1
the pig was rooting for truffles	literal	0
We rotate the lead soprano every night	literal	0
Interns have to rotate for a few months	metaphorical	1
We rotate the crops so as to maximize the use of the soil	literal	0
She was rubricated by the pope	literal	0
the manuscript is not rubricated	literal	0
"In this beautiful book, all the place names are rubricated"	literal	0
She wanted to ruffle his composure.	metaphorical	1
This play is going to ruffle some people.	metaphorical	1
The bird ruffled its feathers.	literal	0
The wind ruffled the surface of the water.	literal	0
The seamstress ruffled the curtain fabric.	literal	0
You have ruined my car by pouring sugar in the tank!	literal	0
This behavior will ruin your chances of winning the election	literal	0
The country lay ruined after the war	literal	0
We sailed the Atlantic	literal	0
"I love sailing, especially on the open sea"	literal	0
The QE2 will sail to Southampton tomorrow	literal	0
the rebels had salted the fields with mines and traps	metaphorical	1
She salts her lectures with jokes	metaphorical	1
people used to salt meats on ships	literal	0
I meet this men every day on my way to work and he salutes me	literal	0
I salute your courage!	metaphorical	1
a terrible stench saluted our nostrils	metaphorical	1
"When the officers show up, the soldiers have to salute"	literal	0
This bike scales only 25 pounds	literal	0
The troops scaled the walls of the fort	literal	0
We scaled the Mont Blanc	literal	0
This model must be scaled down	literal	0
the surgeon scanned the X-ray	literal	0
She scanned the newspaper headlines while waiting for the taxi	literal	0
The beams scanned the night sky	metaphorical	1
The heat scorched the countryside.	metaphorical	1
The wildfire scorched the forest and several homes.	literal	0
The exposed tree scorched in the hot sun.	metaphorical	1
The home team scored many times.	literal	0
She scored the clay before firing it.	literal	0
She scored high on the SAT.	literal	0
They scored the SAT essays.	literal	0
The cat scraped at the armchair	literal	0
They scraped a letter into the stone	literal	0
She had scraped together enough money for college	metaphorical	1
They decided to screen the blood for the HIV virus.	metaphorical	1
The officer screened the suitcases.	literal	0
The scientist screened these samples.	literal	0
The host seated me next to Mrs. Smith	literal	0
"The theater seats 2,000"	literal	0
seat the camera on the tripod	literal	0
the mother seated the toddler on the high chair	literal	0
She seems to be sleeping	literal	0
It seems that he is very gifted	literal	0
There seems no reason to go ahead with the project now	literal	0
I seem to be misunderstood by everyone	literal	0
This neighborhood is segregated	literal	0
Many towns segregated into new counties	literal	0
the sun segregates the carbon	literal	0
The sales clerk quickly seized the money on the counter	literal	0
The terrorists seized the politicians	literal	0
the invaders seized the land and property of the inhabitants	literal	0
The FBI seized the drugs	literal	0
Fear seized the prisoners	metaphorical	1
These books sell like hot cakes.	literal	0
The French try to sell us their image as great lovers.	metaphorical	1
The brothers sell shoes.	literal	0
This robot can sense the presence of people in the room	literal	0
I sense his hostility	literal	0
I sensed the real meaning of his letter	literal	0
He was not sensitized to her emotional needs	literal	0
She sensitized me with respect to gender differences in this traditional male-dominated society	metaphorical	1
Long-term exposure to this medicine may sensitize you to the allergen	literal	0
sensitize the photographic film	literal	0
the estate was sequestered	literal	0
The cations were sequestered	literal	0
He sequestered himself in his study to write a book	literal	0
The dentist sequesters the tooth he is working on	literal	0
The bad news shook her hopes.	metaphorical	1
I couldn't shake the car that was following me.	metaphorical	1
Shake the salt out of the salt shaker.	literal	0
We had to sharpen our arguments	metaphorical	1
The debate sharpened	metaphorical	1
This drug will sharpen your vision	metaphorical	1
He shed his image as a pushy boss.	metaphorical	1
She shed a lot of tears when this happened.	literal	0
Our dog sheds every Spring.	literal	0
You have shipwrecked my career.	metaphorical	1
They were shipwrecked in one of the mysteries at sea.	literal	0
The vessel was shipwrecked.	literal	0
He shortened his trip due to illness	literal	0
The manuscript must be shortened	literal	0
shorten the rope by a few inches	literal	0
"In winter, the days shorten"	literal	0
He was showered with praise	metaphorical	1
The guests showered rice on the couple	literal	0
You should shower after vigorous exercise	literal	0
Meteors showered down over half of Australia	literal	0
He showered her with presents	metaphorical	1
The soldiers sifted through the woods.	metaphorical	1
He sifted the information.	metaphorical	1
They sifted through the job candidates.	metaphorical	1
She signed the letter and sent it off.	literal	0
He signed to play the casino on December 18.	literal	0
They signed two new pitchers for the next season.	metaphorical	1
He signed his disapproval with a dismissive hand gesture.	metaphorical	1
This road has been signed.	literal	0
"I don't know how to sign, so I could not communicate with my deaf cousin."	literal	0
She was singing while she was cooking	literal	0
The nightingale was singing	literal	0
the kettle was singing	metaphorical	1
When does the court of law sit?	metaphorical	1
The White House sits on Pennsylvania Avenue	metaphorical	1
I cannot baby-sit tonight; I have too much homework to do	metaphorical	1
He smashed a 3-run homer	metaphorical	1
She smashed her car against the guard rail	literal	0
The motorcycle smashed into the guard rail	literal	0
The police smashed the drug ring after they were tipped off	metaphorical	1
smother the meat in gravy	literal	0
Othello smothered Desdemona with a pillow	literal	0
the butter cream smothered the cake	metaphorical	1
she snorted her disapproval of the proposed bridegroom	metaphorical	1
The critic snorted contemptuously	literal	0
The addict was snorting cocaine almost every day	literal	0
He never socializes with his colleagues	literal	0
The children must be properly socialized	literal	0
Children have to be socialized in school	literal	0
Health care should be socialized!	literal	0
Henry IV solicited the Pope for a divorce.	literal	0
He was solicited by a prostitute.	literal	0
He was accused of soliciting his colleagues to destroy the documents.	literal	0
She is too shy to solicit.	literal	0
This sounds interesting	literal	0
This record sounds scratchy	literal	0
sound a certain note	literal	0
She sowed sunflower seeds	literal	0
sow suspicion or beliefs	metaphorical	1
sow the ground with sunflower seeds	literal	0
Bullets were spatting down on us	literal	0
mollusks or oysters spat	literal	0
Bullets were spatting the leaves	literal	0
She specializes in Near Eastern history	literal	0
specialize one's research	literal	0
She specializes in honey bees	literal	0
How do you spell this word?	literal	0
I'm afraid this spells trouble!	metaphorical	1
He spelled the word wrong in this letter	literal	0
She spelled her husband at the wheel	metaphorical	1
the workers spell every four hours	metaphorical	1
She splashed the water around her.	literal	0
The mother splashed the baby's face with water.	literal	0
The mountain was splashed with snow.	metaphorical	1
Water was splashing on the floor.	literal	0
The wine spotted the tablecloth	literal	0
This dress spots quickly	literal	0
spot the areas that one should clearly identify	literal	0
Water sprayed all over the floor	literal	0
spray water on someone	literal	0
spray the wall with paint	literal	0
The invaders spread their language all over the country	literal	0
spread cheese on a piece of bread	literal	0
the infection spread	literal	0
A big oil spot spread across the water	literal	0
He spread fertilizer over the lawn	literal	0
spread the bread with cheese	literal	0
square the wood with a file	literal	0
He squared his shoulders	metaphorical	1
one idea squares with the other one	metaphorical	1
The drunken man staggered into the room.	literal	0
He staggered along in the heavy snow.	literal	0
The architect decided to stagger the chairs in the lecture hall.	literal	0
She was staggered with bills after she tried to rebuild her house following the earthquake.	metaphorical	1
Industry will stagnate if we do not stimulate our economy	literal	0
There are marshes that stagnate the waters	literal	0
blood stagnates in the capillaries	literal	0
The old man sat and stagnated on his porch	literal	0
The car stalled in the driveway	literal	0
"she doesn't want to write the report, so she is stalling"	literal	0
The inexperienced driver kept stalling the car	literal	0
a man whose name is permanently stamped on our maps	metaphorical	1
His playing stamps him as a Romantic	metaphorical	1
Are the letters properly stamped?	literal	0
stamp fruit extract the juice	metaphorical	1
Thunderbolts can stampede animals	literal	0
The tavern owners stampeded us into overeating	metaphorical	1
Companies will now stampede to release their latest software	metaphorical	1
The ship steamed off into the Pacific	literal	0
The rain forest was literally steaming	literal	0
her indifference to his amorous advances really steamed the young man	metaphorical	1
steam-clean the upholstered sofa	literal	0
just steam the vegetables	literal	0
The Senator steamrollered the bill to defeat	metaphorical	1
The new teacher tends to steamroller	metaphorical	1
steamroller the opposition	metaphorical	1
The Senator steamrollered the bill to defeat	metaphorical	1
The new teacher tends to steamroller	metaphorical	1
steamroller the road	literal	0
steamroller the opposition	metaphorical	1
She stepped into a life of luxury	metaphorical	1
The architect wants to step the terrace	literal	0
step over to the blackboard	literal	0
The book stimulated her imagination	literal	0
Coffee and tea stimulate me	literal	0
stimulate my appetite	literal	0
I won't stoop to reading other people's mail.	metaphorical	1
The eagle stooped on the mice in the field.	literal	0
The rocks stooped down over the hiking path.	metaphorical	1
The old man was stooping but he could walk around without a cane.	literal	0
their manes streamed like stiff black pennants in the wind	metaphorical	1
She was streaming with sweat	metaphorical	1
Tears streamed down her face	literal	0
The child stuffed candy into his pockets	literal	0
My nose is all stuffed	literal	0
She stuffed herself at the dinner	metaphorical	1
stuff a pillow with feathers	literal	0
Have you stuffed the turkey yet?	literal	0
The drunk man stumbled about	literal	0
She stumbled over the tree root	literal	0
I stumbled across a long-lost cousin last night in a restaurant	metaphorical	1
suck the poison from the place where the snake bit	literal	0
Mud was sucking at her feet	metaphorical	1
The current boom in the economy sucked many workers in from abroad	metaphorical	1
The wetnurse suckled the infant	literal	0
He supplicated the King for clemency	literal	0
supplicate for permission	literal	0
supplicate God's blessing	literal	0
The secret police suspended their victims from the ceiling and beat them.	literal	0
The fluid suspends the particles.	metaphorical	1
They suspended payments on the loan.	literal	0
The prison sentence was suspended.	literal	0
We sustained the diplomatic negotiations as long as possible	literal	0
We sustained ourselves on bread and water	literal	0
She alone sustained her family	literal	0
The court sustained the motion	literal	0
The Nazis swallowed the Baltic countries	metaphorical	1
The huge waves swallowed the small boat and it sank shortly thereafter	metaphorical	1
She swallowed the last words of her speech	metaphorical	1
He swallowed his words	metaphorical	1
I swallowed my anger and kept quiet	metaphorical	1
Am I supposed to swallow that story?	metaphorical	1
The music swelled to a crescendo	metaphorical	1
The mother was swelling with importance when she spoke of her son	metaphorical	1
The bellies of the starving children are swelling	literal	0
The water swells the wood	literal	0
We had to swim for 20 minutes to reach the shore	literal	0
my brain is swimming after the bottle of champagne	metaphorical	1
the meat was swimming in a fatty gravy	metaphorical	1
this snake swims through the soil where it lives	literal	0
Let's synchronize our efforts	literal	0
synchronize this film	literal	0
synchronize biblical events	literal	0
The clocks synchronize	literal	0
synchronize your watches	literal	0
tack the notice on the board	literal	0
The sailors decided to tack the boat	literal	0
He tacked together some verses	metaphorical	1
Actions talk louder than words.	metaphorical	1
She talks a lot of nonsense.	literal	0
The baby talks already.	literal	0
"If you don't oblige me, I'll talk!"	literal	0
Be carefu l-- his secretary talks.	literal	0
She will talk at Rutgers next week.	literal	0
Can you taste the garlic?	literal	0
This tastes of nutmeg	literal	0
We tasted wines last night	literal	0
The ex-slave tasted freedom shortly before she died	metaphorical	1
The State taxes alcohol heavily.	literal	0
You are taxing my patience.	metaphorical	1
They taxed him failure to appear in court.	metaphorical	1
The children teased the boy because of his stammer	literal	0
The children teased the new teacher	literal	0
The advertisement is intended to tease the customers	literal	0
tease tissue for microscopic examinations	literal	0
the flirting man teased the young woman	literal	0
He could tell that she was unhappy	literal	0
I tell you that man is a crook!	literal	0
he was telling on all his former colleague	literal	0
We were tempted by the delicious-looking food	literal	0
He lured me into temptation	literal	0
the window displays tempted the shoppers	literal	0
St. Anthony was tempted in the desert	literal	0
the bodybuilder's neck muscles tensed;	literal	0
alternately relax and tense your calf muscle	literal	0
He tensed up when he saw his opponent enter the room	literal	0
he got a phone call from his lawyer that tensed him up	literal	0
The teacher tests us every week	literal	0
He tested positive for HIV	literal	0
She tested high on the LSAT and was admitted to all the good law schools	literal	0
She doesn't test well	literal	0
The men were thrilled by a loud whistle blow	literal	0
he was thrilled by the speed and the roar of the engine	literal	0
The children were thrilled at the prospect of going to the movies	literal	0
The bus thundered down the road.	metaphorical	1
The river thundered below.	metaphorical	1
They tied their victim to the chair	literal	0
The teams drew a tie	literal	0
These big jets are tied to large airports	metaphorical	1
The fishermen tied their flies	literal	0
The candidate carefully timed his appearance at the disaster scene.	literal	0
We time the process to manufacture our cars very precisely.	literal	0
The good player times his swing so as to hit the ball squarely.	literal	0
tip the screen upward	literal	0
tip the arrow with the small stone	literal	0
Remember to tip the waiter	literal	0
He tipped off the police about the terrorist plot	literal	0
The church was tithed	literal	0
He tithed his income to the Church	literal	0
"Although she left the church officially, she still tithes"	literal	0
They topped off their dinner with a cognac.	metaphorical	1
A star tops the Christmas Tree.	literal	0
The towers were topped with conical roofs.	literal	0
The hikers topped the mountain just before noon	metaphorical	1
The gardener topped the trees and bushes.	metaphorical	1
trace the outline of a figure in the sand	literal	0
The hunters traced the deer into the woods	literal	0
She traced the circumstances of her birth	metaphorical	1
The children traced along the edge of the dark forest	metaphorical	1
John trailed behind his class mates.	metaphorical	1
The toddler was trailing his pants.	metaphorical	1
transfer the patient to another hospital	literal	0
transfer the packet from his trouser pockets to a pocket in his jacket	literal	0
I transferred my stock holdings to my children	literal	0
This experience transformed her completely.	metaphorical	1
He transformed into a monster.	metaphorical	1
It can transform energy to light.	literal	0
I have to translate when my in-laws from Austria visit the U.S.	literal	0
Braque translated collage into oil	metaphorical	1
the growth in income translates into greater purchasing power	literal	0
poetry often does not translate	literal	0
Can you translate the instructions in this manual for a layman?	literal	0
For fools rush in where angels fear to tread	literal	0
tread grapes to make wine	literal	0
male birds tread the females	literal	0
treat the water so it can be drunk	literal	0
The doctor treated my broken leg	literal	0
Grandmother always treated us to the circus	literal	0
Don't worry about the expensive wine--I'm treating	literal	0
they had to treat with the King	metaphorical	1
I treated his advances as a joke	literal	0
He trenched his military camp	literal	0
letters trenched into the stone	metaphorical	1
trench the fallen soldiers	literal	0
The National Guardsmen were sent out to trench	literal	0
The prisoner tugged at the chains	literal	0
She tugged for years to make a decent living	metaphorical	1
The tugboat tugged the freighter into the harbor	literal	0
The horse finally tugged the cart out of the mud	literal	0
Each oar was tugged by several men	literal	0
She tugged and wrestled with her conflicts	metaphorical	1
The wrestler twisted his shoulder	literal	0
twist the dough into a braid	literal	0
The cord is all twisted	literal	0
Don't twist my words	metaphorical	1
She did not understand her husband	literal	0
She understands French	literal	0
I understand you have no previous experience?	literal	0
You don't need to explain--I understand!	literal	0
I've upgraded my computer so I can run better software	literal	0
I upgraded to First Class when Coach Class was overbooked	literal	0
The airline upgraded me when I arrived late and Coach Class was full	literal	0
The war uprooted many people.	metaphorical	1
The vestiges of political democracy were soon uprooted.	metaphorical	1
They plan to uproot the vine that has spread all over the garden.	literal	0
we only use Spanish at home	literal	0
She uses drugs rarely	literal	0
She uses her influential friends to get jobs	literal	0
use care when going down the stairs	literal	0
She used to call her mother every week but now she calls only occasionally	literal	0
The effect vanished when day broke	literal	0
An entire civilization vanished	literal	0
the money vanished in las Vegas	literal	0
They vegetated the hills behind their house	literal	0
The fields vegetate vigorously	literal	0
This fungus usually vegetates vigorously	literal	0
warts and polyps can vegetate if not removed	literal	0
The bacterial growth vegetated along	literal	0
"After a hard day's work, I vegetate in front of the television"	metaphorical	1
They vested the council with special rights	metaphorical	1
She vested her vast fortune in her two sons	literal	0
The property vests in the trustees	literal	0
Did you ever visit Paris?	literal	0
The principal visited his rage on the students.	metaphorical	1
"Every summer, we visited our relatives in the country for a month."	literal	0
He was visited with a terrible illness that killed him quickly.	metaphorical	1
The radiologist can visualize the cancerous liver.	literal	0
Mathematicians often visualize.	metaphorical	1
"With this machine, ultrasound can be visualized."	literal	0
Gun shots volleyed at the attackers.	metaphorical	1
They began to volley the tennis ball.	literal	0
The attackers volleyed gunshots at the civilians.	metaphorical	1
I heard him volley a string of curses.	metaphorical	1
He voted for the motion	literal	0
vote the Democratic ticket	literal	0
I vote that we all go home	literal	0
vote one's conscience	literal	0
They voted aid for the underdeveloped countries in Asia	literal	0
Will he vouch for me?	literal	0
I vouch for the quality of my products.	literal	0
He vouched his words by his deeds.	metaphorical	1
"Walk, don't run!"	literal	0
The lovers held hands while walking.	literal	0
I'll walk you to your car	literal	0
Paul walked the streets of Damascus.	literal	0
We must walk with our dispossessed brothers and sisters.	literal	0
The horses walked across the meadow.	literal	0
He walks the horse up the mountain.	literal	0
wallow in your sorrows	metaphorical	1
pigs were wallowing in the mud	literal	0
wallow in your success!	metaphorical	1
I want to go home now	literal	0
This piano wants the attention of a competent tuner	metaphorical	1
Your former neighbor is wanted by the FBI	literal	0
I want you here at noon!	literal	0
want the strength to go on living	literal	0
The director warned him that he might be fired.	literal	0
I warned him not to go too far.	literal	0
The old man warned the children off his property.	literal	0
I warned you that I would ask some difficult questions.	literal	0
He wasted his inheritance on his insincere friends.	metaphorical	1
Don't waste a joke on an unappreciative audience.	metaphorical	1
We waste the dirty water by channeling it into the sewer.	literal	0
The water wastes back into the ocean.	metaphorical	1
We watered the buffalo	literal	0
My mouth watered at the prospect of a good dinner	literal	0
His eyes were watering	literal	0
She was wearing yellow that day	literal	0
He always wears a smile	metaphorical	1
wear one's hair in a certain way	literal	0
What should I wear today?	literal	0
wharf the passengers	metaphorical	1
the big ship wharfed in the evening	literal	0
The ship was wharfed	literal	0
The bullets whistled past him	metaphorical	1
She whistled a melody	literal	0
Her optimism whistled away these worries	metaphorical	1
She whistled for her maid	literal	0
I wish I could go home now.	literal	0
I wish that Christmas were over.	literal	0
We wish you a nice evening!	literal	0
I worry about my job	literal	0
I worry about my grades	literal	0
I cannot sleep--my daughter's health is worrying me	literal	0
I worry about the second Germanic consonant shift	literal	0
He wrestled all his life with his feeling of inferiority.	metaphorical	1
I wrestled with this decision for years.	metaphorical	1
The children wrestled in the garden.	literal	0
She writes code faster than anybody else.	literal	0
Please write to me every week.	literal	0
How many books did Georges Simenon write?	literal	0