Latest corporate unbundler reveals laid-back approach: Roland Franklin, who is leading a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG, talks to Frank Kane	metaphorical	1
By FRANK KANE	literal	0
IT SEEMS that Roland Franklin, the latest unbundler to appear in the UK, has made a fatal error in the preparation of his£697m break-up bid for stationery and packaging group DRG.	metaphorical	1
He has not properly investigated the target's dining facilities.	metaphorical	1
The 63-year-old head of Pembridge Investments, through which the bid is being mounted says,‘rule number one in this business is: the more luxurious the luncheon rooms at headquarters, the more inefficient the business’.	metaphorical	1
If he had taken his own rule seriously, he would have found out that DRG has a very modest self-service canteen at its Bristol head office.	metaphorical	1
There are other things he has, on his own admission, not fully investigated, like the value of the DRG properties, or which part of the DRG business he would keep after the break up.	metaphorical	1
When the bid was launched last week, Mr Franklin faced some criticism from City commentators on both those counts.	metaphorical	1
He regards the charges as unfounded.	metaphorical	1
On property, he is blunt.	metaphorical	1
‘I do not regard property profits as earnings.	metaphorical	1
We have made a bid of nearly£700m for a company with a book value of£200m— we've acknowledged there is some extra worth there, but I can not see the sort of value they are talking about in property.	metaphorical	1
If they can prove it is there, we might pay for it,’	metaphorical	1
On the other criticism he is equally dismissive.	metaphorical	1
‘That point about the core business is very unfair,’ he says.	metaphorical	1
It is difficult to decide when you are an outsider what the business is like.	literal	0
We would eventually like to do it along with the management, within the philosophy we will impose.’	metaphorical	1
The Franklin philosophy was learnt in the US leveraged buyout business at the side of Sir James Goldsmith.	metaphorical	1
Mr Franklin went there at the end of the 1970s, after the collapse of Keyser Ullman, the merchant bank where he was a director that was rescued by the Bank of England.	metaphorical	1
He feels that Keyser's problems were hastened by an unwise acquisition.	metaphorical	1
He went to the US because‘Goldsmith decided that if you wanted to be a capitalist the UK and France were not the places to be’.	literal	0
Along with Sir James he found the US much more attractive, taking over and breaking up some fairly hefty US corporations.	metaphorical	1
He rejects charges that he was partly responsible for the‘casino atmosphere’ that gripped US corporate life in the early 1980s.	metaphorical	1
‘We stirred it up, yes, but we never lost any money for anybody and we never added to the unemployment figures.’	metaphorical	1
What he has learned from Goldsmith(‘the only genius I have ever come across’) is that the holding company is not the most important unit of corporate organisation.	metaphorical	1
‘The concept of the company does not interest me- it's the businesses that are important.	literal	0
It does not matter whether or not DRG makes sellotape or Basildon Bond— it's of no consequence to anybody if somebody else makes them.’	metaphorical	1
And there is always the ultimate unbundler's defence— that he will make money for his backers.	metaphorical	1
In a takeover campaign that has already seen vitriolic language, he responds to the charge that he is mounting the bid to enrich himself and his friends by saying:‘Nobody could take that as a criticism— this is an investor group.	metaphorical	1
It would be a criticism if I was doing it to impoverish myself’.	literal	0
Letter: Policy and politics at the Labour Party Conference	metaphorical	1
From MR DAVID SOSKIN	literal	0
Sir: I was interested by your juxtaposition of‘Poll predicts 42-seat majority for Labour’ with‘Tories hold on’(30 September), the latter referring, of course, to the Conservative victory in Wandsworth, the significance of which appears to have been almost totally ignored by the media.	metaphorical	1
Electors are always prepared to criticise the Government in answer to pollsters' questions, but when the same individuals arrive at the polling booth they simply can not bring themselves to vote Labour into power.	metaphorical	1
Letter: Policy and politics at the Labour Party Conference	metaphorical	1
From MS MOLLY MEACHER	literal	0
Sir: Despite a significant gap in the Labour Party's education and training proposals, their objective to double the number of 16-18year-olds in full-time education must be welcomed(28 September).	metaphorical	1
England's full-time staying- on rate stands at 28 per cent according to the latest statistics available.	metaphorical	1
This compares with 79 per cent in the US, 86 per cent in Sweden, 45 per cent in West Germany and 69 per cent in Japan.	metaphorical	1
To add the part-time education and training statistics to those figures does not improve our relative position.	metaphorical	1
Labour hopes to transform the situation by increasing the number of A- levels to five for the brighter youngsters and providing grants for four-year training courses(two years in a Further Education college followed by two with an employer) for the rest.	metaphorical	1
These reforms will only achieve their objective if accompanied by the implementation of the 1944 Education Act provision for compulsory part- or full-time education or training up to the age of 18.	metaphorical	1
This clause has never yet been activated.	metaphorical	1
The sharply reduced number of 16-18-year-olds will inevitably lead employers to bid up the wages of that age group to entice young people away from education and into unskilled or semi- skilled jobs.	metaphorical	1
Employers must be required to release 16-18-year-olds for education and training for at least two days per week.	metaphorical	1
Only then will two vitally important and complementary goals be achieved: to improve Britain's general educational and vocational competence, and hence our productive capacity; and to reduce our gross educational inequalities between the elite who receive a narrow education to a very high standard, and the rest.	metaphorical	1
Letter: Policy and politics at the Labour Party Conference	metaphorical	1
From MR JOHN PERTWEE	literal	0
Sir: Labour does not need a commitment to proportional representation in order to scoop most of the centre ground at the next general election.	metaphorical	1
All it needs is to promise a high-powered investigation, such as a Royal Commission, into the practicalities of an alternative voting system(surely justified by the intense public interest now abounding).	metaphorical	1
Such a promise would be the only hope of a breakthrough for the disenfranchised voters and would have them flocking to the polls for Mr Kinnock.	metaphorical	1
His problem will be that Mrs Thatcher might decide to do it first, and then she will garner the votes.	literal	0
Letter: Policy and politics at the Labour Party Conference	metaphorical	1
From MR DENIS MacSHANE	literal	0
Sir: If Labour is to suggest the setting up of a specialist labour court(30 September), then such a momentous change in the industrial relations system deserves more discussion, and needs to be taken out of the hot-house of Labour Party conference politics.	metaphorical	1
For three reasons such a move should be welcomed.	metaphorical	1
First, it would bring Britain into line with the best European practice, notably in Germany where local, regional and federal labour courts handle problems in a fair, dispassionate way based on law, precedent and judicial expertise in the labour field.	metaphorical	1
Second, it would ensure that workers enjoyed positive rights under law and reduce the emphasis of union immunities.	metaphorical	1
Labour law will always reflect the balance of power in society, and a fully fledged labour court system will not remove class and fundamental employer-employee differences.	metaphorical	1
But it should be possible to create and enforce enough common rules to prevent the absurd see-sawing of industrial relations legislation we have seen since 1969.	metaphorical	1
Third, a labour division of the High Court would contribute to the process of constitutional reform in Britain which surely is to be a key political issue in the 1990s.	metaphorical	1
The‘trade union question’ would cease to haunt the Labour Party and while that might upset some Conservatives it would be good for the country.	metaphorical	1
Letter: Independence of no- fixed-abode	metaphorical	1
From The Rev NERISSA JONES	literal	0
Sir: On Saturday you published an advertisement for the 10 extra pages of news and features that you, The Independent, will carry from 2 October.	metaphorical	1
‘What do independent experts say about our 10 extra pages?’ asks the advertisement.	metaphorical	1
The supposedly jokey answers are illustrated by photographs of people sleeping outside covered by copies of The Independent: they look like some of the hundreds of visitors who come to St Botolph' s Crypt Centre for homeless people every day.	metaphorical	1
Given the already appalling and growing rate of homelessness and lack of hostel facilities in London, when more people than ever will not only have to endure the freezing nights of the coming winter on the streets, but perhaps permanent homelessness, it was terrible to see the situation being exploited for a joke by your advertisement:‘Just the thing now the evenings are drawing in.	metaphorical	1
.‘;‘The added coverage is exactly what I wanted’.	literal	0
How much‘independence’ do you suppose a person has who exists on the no- fixed- abode Giro of£34.90 a week?	metaphorical	1
Letter: EC immigration checks on trains	literal	0
From The Rev J. GILMORE	literal	0
Sir: The contents of Sarah Helm's article‘Immigration checks to be made on trains’(25 September) are extremely worrying.	metaphorical	1
During the recent European Community elections the representatives of EC governments promoted the ideal of a border-free Europe by 1992.	metaphorical	1
Now, it would appear from this article, that this ideal is shattered and a two-tiered Europe is on the cards.	metaphorical	1
One for those who travel by aircraft and one for those who travel by train between London and Paris.	literal	0
The presence of immigration officials and police on board trains is comparable to the scenes of 1930s America where migrant labourers were turned back at state boundaries.	metaphorical	1
What criteria would police and immigration officials use in their search for‘potential terrorists’ on a train that they could not use at a static checkpoint or airport?	metaphorical	1
Do terrorists or illegal persons travel exclusively by train?	literal	0
This is a clear example of the extension of the Prevention of Terrorism Act where criteria for stopping, questioning and searching are purely subjective to the official involved.	metaphorical	1
Will a person's accent, dress or skin colour indicate the potential terrorist or, for that matter, football hooligan or drug pusher?	metaphorical	1
This is a recipe for fear and anxiety.	metaphorical	1
It may mean the detention of innocent people and indeed their imprisonment.	literal	0
Letter: Cardinal sins	literal	0
From Mr JIMMY DONOGHUE	literal	0
Sir: The North-east publishers of Viz are nearer the truth than they realise with their soccer strip(29 September).	metaphorical	1
Cardinal Hume has not only the cross of being a fervent Newcastle United supporter to bear; he is also known to irreverent members of Mayfair's Jesuit Farm Street Church by his initials, George Basil Hume.	metaphorical	1
Latecomers who continue to hope	literal	0
From ANNE APPLEBAUM in Warsaw	literal	0
DOZENS more East German refugees arrived outside the West German embassy yesterday seeking asylum and passage to the West, including some who missed by only a few minutes a train that took more than 800 of their compatriots to West Germany.	metaphorical	1
Many of the new arrivals, who waited in the street outside the embassy, said they were convinced there would be another train for them.	literal	0
The one they missed pulled out from Warsaw's East Station at 2.50am yesterday carrying 809 cheering East Germans bound for the Rhine region of West Germany.	metaphorical	1
Once upon a time another German government let Lenin cross another Germany in a sealed train on his way to Russia.	metaphorical	1
More than 80 years later, Lenin's heirs are allowing refugees from their Communist regime escape in the opposite direction, in an East German-made train travelling across East German territory.	metaphorical	1
Among those leaving was Cornelia, 22, a young East Berliner destined, she said, for West Berlin via a very circuitous route.	literal	0
‘I still do n't know if my family know where I am or if they will suffer from my decision.	metaphorical	1
But I saw no other way out: I did n't know if I would ever have a chance again.’	metaphorical	1
Some of the refugees had been living in Polish exile for as long as seven weeks, while others arrived only a few hours before West German diplomats announced they could leave.	metaphorical	1
Only two failed to go: a new mother and her child, who was born in a Polish hospital four days ago.	literal	0
The East German government's decision to let the refugees leave across their own country came as a surprise to many, including some West German diplomats.	metaphorical	1
Some of the refugees originally refused to touch East German territory again, but were reassured when two of the West German diplomats said they would accompany the train, to ensure that the rules were followed.	metaphorical	1
During the journey, East German officials will enter the train, and collect all East German passports.	literal	0
West Germans will then issue new ones.	literal	0
Legally, the refugees have been expelled from East Germany, meaning that under current rules they can not return.	metaphorical	1
According to unofficial reports, the arrangement was designed by the West German Foreign Minister, Hans Dietrich Genscher, the new Polish foreign minister, Krzystof Skubiszewski, and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, who met recently at the United Nations in New York.	metaphorical	1
Communists allow burial of Montenegro's last king	literal	0
From MARCUS TANNER in Cetinje, Yugoslavia	literal	0
THE PEOPLE of Montenegro yesterday welcomed home the remains of Nicholas I, their first and last king, after 70 years' exile in Italy, in belated fulfilment of his last will and testament.	metaphorical	1
Thousands of Montenegrins, many in national costume, waited at the quayside in Bar for the Italian warship that would bring him home.	metaphorical	1
Then they formed a slow procession behind the coffin into the mountains to the old royal capital of Cetinje for his reburial in the monastery there.	literal	0
What was surely the last ever Montenegrin‘royal event’ was masterminded by the republic's new Communist leadership, which has abruptly stopped describing Nicholas as a class enemy, to ride the same wave of popular patriotism and royal fervour which swept Serbia in the recent celebrations of the 600th anniversary of the battle of Kosovo.	metaphorical	1
The latest biography now calls him‘an outstanding statesman, warrior and man of letters’.	metaphorical	1
‘If I die abroad in exile, let my body rest in a temporary grave until my mortal remains be transferred to our dear homeland,’ said the Montenegrin President, Branko Kostic, reading the royal will and testament to the crowds in Cetinje Square, who carried flags and portraits of Nicholas and his queen, Milena.	metaphorical	1
‘Today the people of Montenegro fulfill the wish of their first and last king guided by innate love and respect for their history,’ he went on.	metaphorical	1
‘Our tourist organisations are counting on big profits,’ said Srdan Darmanovic, a member of the Montenegrin Central Committee.	metaphorical	1
‘This will be good for the Montenegrin economy too.’	metaphorical	1
Montenegro's young and go-ahead leadership, which came to power this year amid furious popular dissatisfaction with the‘old men in grey suits’, sponsored the gathering of Nicholas's surviving relatives— the first‘royal reunion’ organised by a Communist government.	metaphorical	1
‘A letter dropped through the post from the President of the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, inviting me to the funeral,’ said John Kennedy, a Conservative Party member who lives in Barking and is a distant relative of Nicholas.	metaphorical	1
Montenegro's sudden rehabilitation of Nicholas's memory is a popular move.	metaphorical	1
‘He liberated us from the Turks and fought for our independence,’ said a small boy who waited at the quayside amid a jostling crowd of former monarchs, visiting Serbian bishops and television crews.	metaphorical	1
Marko Radoman, 103, and a veteran of both Balkan wars, was given a place at the front as one of the few with personal memories of Nicholas's reign.	metaphorical	1
For a man whom Rebecca West, a contemporary Balkan observer, called‘repulsive’ and‘treacherous’ for deserting his Serbian son-in-law, King Alexander, in the First World War, it is a sepia- tinted view of history.	metaphorical	1
Nicholas was known as‘the uncle of Europe’ for his success in marrying his beautiful but penniless daughters into the grander royal houses of Russia, Serbia and Italy.	metaphorical	1
This furthered his long-term ambition to rule a large‘south Slav’ kingdom when the Ottoman Empire finally collapsed.	metaphorical	1
One daughter, a grand duchess of Russia, even gained a footnote in history by introducing an unknown monk, Rasputin, to the Russian Tsarina Alexandra.	metaphorical	1
In his minute, inaccessible capital, which today has only 15,000 inhabitants, Nicholas erected a miniature European court and an exquisitely furnished Victorian palace.	metaphorical	1
He even persuaded 12 European powers to turn cottages into full embassies.	metaphorical	1
It was a fair achievement in a town which an earlier observer described as‘44 hovels’.	metaphorical	1
But Nicholas's grand design collapsed in 1918 when his Serbian son-in-law, Alexander, deposed him and incorporated Montenegro into Yugoslavia.	metaphorical	1
Obituary: Virgil Thomson	literal	0
By PETER DICKINSON	literal	0
VIRGIL THOMSON was a composer and writer of originality, courage and wit formed by a unique mixture of American and French influences.	metaphorical	1
Thomson was born in Kansas City in 1896, studied at Harvard, and then mostly lived in Paris until 1940.	metaphorical	1
His Missouri childhood gave him access to Baptist hymns and church music, but at Harvard he was introduced to the writings of Gertrude Stein and the music of Erik Satie.	metaphorical	1
These influences laid the foundations for the blend of the naive and the sophisticated which is the hallmark of Thomson's maturity.	metaphorical	1
Like many young American composers he studied with Nadia Boulanger, but after 1925 set out to achieve the‘discipline of spontaneity’ which he found in Stein's writings.	metaphorical	1
When he collaborated directly with her in opera the result was of historical significance.	metaphorical	1
First came Four Saints in Three Acts, produced in 1934, and then The Mother of Us All(1947), which demonstrated a new kind of plotless opera only now reaching a wider currency through the stage works of Philip Glass.	metaphorical	1
In Four Saints Thomson's informality was given free reign since he first of all improvised the music at the piano then, when it stuck, wrote it down to a figured bass.	metaphorical	1
He said:‘I had wondered whether a piece so drenched in Anglican chant(running from Gilbert and Sullivan to Morning Prayer and back) could rise and sail.’	metaphorical	1
But the resulting mixture of hymns, folksy tunes and recitatives— at times of intoxicating banality— was a sensation.	metaphorical	1
The opera, like Gershwin's Porgy and Bess the following year, used an all-Black cast and the staging and choreography gave it a British connection since it was by Frederick Ashton.	metaphorical	1
The Mother of Us All shows more continuity, but again much depends upon production in what is still a largely non-narrative opera.	metaphorical	1
In 1936, three years before Aaron Copland, Thomson started writing film scores which were a model of unobtrusive clarity and pertinence, combining American materials to suit documentaries such as The Plow that Broke the Plains and The River with the musique d'ameublement approach of Satie.	metaphorical	1
His score for the film Louisiana Story was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1948.	metaphorical	1
Another response to a visual stimulus was Thomson's series of musical portraits of people such as Picasso and Aaron Copland.	metaphorical	1
The first of these was written in 1928 and they number about 150.	metaphorical	1
Just as Thomson transferred Stein's literary abstraction to music, so these portraits unusually employ the painter's technique of drawing the sitter from life: an ideal combination of Thomson's habit of immediate response with an actual subject.	metaphorical	1
The results are terse and sharply etched, like the best line drawings.	metaphorical	1
Thomson could control words with the same fastidiousness as notes.	metaphorical	1
He always felt that effective musical criticism began by being well written, and he never lost his liveliness.	metaphorical	1
One never quite knew what he was going to say next.	literal	0
He started by writing occasional articles but in 1939 he wrote The State of Music, a trenchant and provocative assessment of the machinery of the musical profession at the time.	metaphorical	1
From 1940 to 1954 he wrote regularly for the New York Herald Tribune and four volumes of his notices have appeared in book form.	metaphorical	1
He wrote a fulsome 400-page autobiography, characteristically entitled Virgil Thomson on Virgil Thomson, and a personal survey, American Music since 1910, appeared in 1972, followed recently by a selected edition of his letters.	metaphorical	1
As both composer and critic he touched both sides of the coin: A climate of receptivity is what the artist most desires.	metaphorical	1
It is also a thing that even the most experienced reviewer can not always offer.	metaphorical	1
Thomson's judgements about music were not always as accurate as his confident expression implied: he invited discussion.	metaphorical	1
Above all he restored the focus of music criticism onto the music itself.	metaphorical	1
He made no secret of his Francophile enthusiasms, in reaction to the earlier domination of American music by Germans, and he was one of the first writers to register the importance of jazz.	metaphorical	1
He fearlessly attacked convention, which caused problems when he pitched into established reputations.	metaphorical	1
It has become increasingly apparent that Thomson belonged to the American experimental tradition.	metaphorical	1
He anticipated some of the enthusiasms of John Cage, whom he first met in 1941.	metaphorical	1
A few years later Thomson recognised Cage as‘the most original composer in America, if not the world…’ and Cage repaid the compliment by writing the works section of a monograph on Thomson.	metaphorical	1
But finally, in spite of their common roots in Satie and Stein, Thomson felt that Cage's aesthetic was destructive.	metaphorical	1
Thomson's songs contain some of his finest work.	metaphorical	1
There are Stein settings, such as‘Portrait of FB’, but also cycles such as Five Songs from William Blake, Prayers and Praises and a cantata based on poems by Edward Lear.	metaphorical	1
Thomson was also prolific in instrumental music on both chamber and solo scale.	metaphorical	1
For many years Thomson lived in New York in his apartment at the Chelsea Hotel.	literal	0
From there, like a buzzard in its eyrie, he would make forays round the US and abroad in spite of his advanced age.	metaphorical	1
He seemed a genial and indestructible landmark in the history of American music, in spite of defective hearing which had bothered him since the late Seventies.	metaphorical	1
He had a photograph of himself on his postcards and he signed his letters following the original tailpiece‘everbest’.	metaphorical	1
Thomson came from a generation of American composers which had to find its own way without benefit of university patronage.	metaphorical	1
In that kind of free market he thrived and survived— and so will the best of his work.	metaphorical	1
Obituary: Thomas Keller	literal	0
By HUGH MATHESON	literal	0
THOMI KELLER is the outstanding figure in the history of international rowing.	metaphorical	1
He was President of FISA(Federation Internationale des Societes d'Aviron), the world governing body, for 30 years; and most of this body's attitudes and practices reflect the force of his strict, but genial personality.	metaphorical	1
Most athletes first encountered him as a voice, bellowing in multi-lingual fury at officials who had broken rules or arrangements designed to make racing safer or more fair.	metaphorical	1
He was elected to succeed Gaston Mullegg as President of FISA when he was 33 and still competing in the Swiss rowing team.	literal	0
He did not loosen his links with the athletes when projected upwards into the Presidency.	metaphorical	1
Provided their behaviour was sportsmanlike and safe, oarsmen found only encouragement and humour from a President who was always among them.	metaphorical	1
Keller's Zurich upbringing made him into a skiier and sculler, and he raced for the Grasshopper club.	metaphorical	1
He competed for the Swiss cross-country and ski-jumping team at the Student Winter Games and later concentrated on single sculls.	metaphorical	1
In 1950, he was Swiss sculls champion and finished third in the European championships before moving to Manila to work for his family's private multinational company, Eduard Keller Ltd, for four years.	metaphorical	1
On his return, Keller was Swiss champion again in 1955 and was bitterly disappointed when the Swiss chose to boycott the 1956 Olympics after the Russian intervention in Hungary.	metaphorical	1
FISA was then a relatively unimportant body which organised European and other championships and participated in the running of Olympic regattas.	metaphorical	1
As a rich, forceful young man, Keller had been earmarked as a likely future president, even before Mullegg was killed in an aircrash in 1958.	metaphorical	1
Rowing was transformed in the breadth and depth of participation over the 30 years of his term.	metaphorical	1
He sat on the appropriate boards of the International Olympic Committee and was President of the General Assembly of International Sports Federations for 17 years.	metaphorical	1
These positions were not held for his own status but to promote the cause of rowing where it needed clout.	metaphorical	1
He successfully defended rowing as an Olympic sport and in 1976 introduced women's events, which have now expanded to six classes.	metaphorical	1
His personal preference for sculling over rowing assisted the introduction of quadruple sculls to world championship and Olympic competition.	metaphorical	1
Keller was made a Steward of Henley Royal Regatta in 1976, a time when the proliferation of new six-lane, still-water courses around the world, which had emerged under his guidance, seemed a threat to the regatta founded in 1829.	metaphorical	1
But it was the spirit of Henley, with huge crowds enjoying amateur sport, presented with administrative finesse, which Keller took as the yardstick for the international circuit.	metaphorical	1
He loved the place and he returned every year to play an often small part as umpire of races between undistinguished clubs far below the Olympic standard he was obliged to administer.	metaphorical	1
He said this summer that as he gradually wound down his involvement in sport, Henley would be the last thing he would give up.	metaphorical	1
During his term as President of FISA he gradually reduced his role in Eduard Keller Ltd and used the company offices to provide a world headquarters for rowing.	metaphorical	1
The sport is now obliged to find income from the more normal sources of television and sponsorship, to replace his largely unacknowledged private patronage.	metaphorical	1
In spite of his gift to the sport, Keller was anxious not to abuse his status as President and never went to a rowing event unless invited.	metaphorical	1
Because of this, he had never seen the Oxford and Cambridge boat race until this year.	metaphorical	1
He was enthralled by the entire proceeding and remarked that only the English could make a contest between two crews which would not rank in the World's top 10 into a bigger spectacle than the Olympic final.	metaphorical	1
The final task he set himself for his Presidency, which was due to end next year, was to weed out of the Regatta calendar all the rowing courses which could be made unfair by the wind.	metaphorical	1
He had recently travelled from Tasmania to Norway in search of the perfect 2,000 metres of flat water.	literal	0
It was a blessing that, in response to congratulations on the superb World Championship Regatta at Bled in Yugoslavia three weeks ago, he was able to reply,‘Yes… and best of all, the conditions were fair throughout’.	metaphorical	1
The Labour Party Conference: Policy review throws a spanner in the Whitehall machinery	metaphorical	1
By COLIN HUGHES, Political Correspondent	literal	0
AN INCOMING Labour government would turn large areas of Whitehall upside down— but the party's policy review barely considers the implications of its plans for restructuring government departments.	metaphorical	1
Scattered through the policy review are proposals to: Drastically alter the status and organisation of the Department of Trade and Industry; Create two departments— a Department of Consumer Affairs, and a Department for Legal Administration; Create a Department of Environmental Protection within the existing Department of the Environment; Set up a plethora of new commissions and executive agencies; Set up a Women's Ministry.	metaphorical	1
Those are only the most overt changes advocated in the review papers.	metaphorical	1
The only department which explicitly escapes unscathed is the one which Conservatives would most like to abolish: the Department of Energy.	metaphorical	1
In virtually every case the aim of causing upheaval is explicitly declared, because Labour's aim would be to upset the bureaucratic order it inherits.	metaphorical	1
New departments and quangos would, according to the review, be designed to act as irritants and antagonists within the Civil Service system.	metaphorical	1
But the policy review nowhere considers the overall effect of the individual changes proposed, or how they might be co-ordinated.	metaphorical	1
Nor does it contemplate the knock-on consequences for Labour ministers of attempting to implement their programme while rebuilding the governmental machine.	metaphorical	1
The‘medium term industrial strategy’ which would form the centrepiece of Labour's economic policy would, according to the Productive and Competitive Economy review group, be‘administered by a transformed Department of Trade and Industry’.	metaphorical	1
The review adds:‘What we now seek is a DTI which will have an equal, if not superior status, to that of the Treasury.’	metaphorical	1
That approach would seek to knock out a keystone of Civil Service tradition.	metaphorical	1
Labour policy has long sought to challenge the Treasury's dominance in government.	metaphorical	1
But its last effort— the Department of Economic Affairs, set up by Harold Wilson and headed by George Brown— ended in futile departmental and ministerial infighting.	metaphorical	1
There would in addition be a minister for Science and Technology at the newly supreme DTI, with responsibility for determing investment in research.	metaphorical	1
There is no mention in the education policy of how that might affect the Department of Education and Science.	metaphorical	1
But while the DTI would override the Treasury, a new‘powerful Department of Consumer Affairs’ would antagonise the DTI.	metaphorical	1
It would be headed by‘a minister of Cabinet rank’ and act as‘the consumers’ voice with other government departments'.	metaphorical	1
Its remit for inter-departmental intrusion would be wide, with‘a watching brief over government action’ and the ability to initiate consumer legislation.	metaphorical	1
Only the Women's Ministry would be given equal license.	metaphorical	1
It would be able to‘require each government department to review its policies, practices, and existing and proposed legislation’.	metaphorical	1
While new departments are born and others extended, one of the oldest— the Home Office— would become a shadow of its present self.	metaphorical	1
Labour's proposed Department for Legal Administration would take over responsibility for courts and tribunals; court procedures; organisation, training and appointment of the legal profession, magistracy and judiciary; legal aid; legal services; and the Sentencing Council.	metaphorical	1
That would leave the Home Office with policing, penal policy and the criminal law.	metaphorical	1
Responsibility for the Sex Discrimination Act, the Equal Pay Act and the Equal Opportunities Commission would be given to the Women's Ministry.	metaphorical	1
The concept of a minister having Cabinet rank— and therefore implicitly not being a member of the Cabinet proper— crops up again on environment.	metaphorical	1
A‘new Minister of Environmental Protection’ would operate inside the DoE.	metaphorical	1
That could work— though it is easy to imagine conflicts of interest with the housing and planning functions of the department.	metaphorical	1
More problematic will be Labour's plan for the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.	metaphorical	1
‘The priority of MAFF must become food, not farming,’ the policy review says.	metaphorical	1
‘Its main concerns would become food and the people who consume it, not farming and those who produce it.’	metaphorical	1
But the regulatory functions over the food industry, now split between MAFF and the Department of Health, would transfer to a new Food Standards Agency.	metaphorical	1
That is the first of many agencies, executives, commissions, and other quango-like bodies recommended by the review.	metaphorical	1
In some cases Labour's quangos merge existing ones, or replace well-established bodies.	metaphorical	1
The funding of higher education would become the responsibility of one body, rather than two.	metaphorical	1
Labour's Quality Commission would replace the Audit Commission.	metaphorical	1
But there would be new regulatory commissions and consumer councils for every utility, along with ombudsmen, and public interest commissioners appointed by the Secretary of State.	metaphorical	1
There would be Skills UK— a locally structured training commission— a Fair Wages Commission, a Health Technology Commission, a Health Quality Commission, an Education Standards Council, an Independent Sentencing Council, a Children's Commissioner, an Environmental Protection Executive, and a Social Insurance Fund administered by…‘an independent commission’.	metaphorical	1
The Labour Party Conference: Cook appeals for Labour to accept electoral reform	metaphorical	1
By COLIN HUGHES and COLIN BROWN	literal	0
AN IMPASSIONED appeal for Labour to back electoral reform was made by a leading Shadow Cabinet member yesterday after the national executive decided overwhelmingly to oppose a proportional representation motion.	metaphorical	1
Robin Cook, a member of the national executive and the health spokesman, said that a Labour government which sought to force its programme on an unwilling nation would be unsocialist.	metaphorical	1
He told a Labour Co-ordinating Committee rally that it was not enough for Labour to win the next election.	metaphorical	1
It would also be necessary‘to smash the decrepit, effete constitution that allows a minority to capture power, and then use it ruthlessly in the interests of the privileged few’.	metaphorical	1
Mr Cook argued that 10 years of Thatcherism had been forced on most people, who had never voted Conservative, and that many of those who opposed PR in the Labour Party wanted to use the same undemocratic power‘to ram socialism down the throats of a majority who did n't vote for it’.	metaphorical	1
Advocates of the first-past-the-post system argued that it was the only way of delivering strong government, Mr Cook said.	metaphorical	1
But after 10 years of Tory rule, he had had enough of that approach to politics.	metaphorical	1
Labour would be acquiescing in a‘democratic outrage’ if it continued arguing that, because the Conservatives had got away with being undemocratic for so long, it was now Labour's turn.	metaphorical	1
Mr Cook also countered the argument that PR would build in a pull towards the centre ground, preventing Labour from implementing a radical programme.	metaphorical	1
It seemed strange to make that argument, Mr Cook said, when it was clear the whole policy review process was designed to placate the centre ground.	metaphorical	1
‘I can not honestly see that a system which would require us to compromise the morning after the election is really so morally inferior to a system which has already obliged us to compromise our policies two years before polling day.’	metaphorical	1
His speech, however, came aftera 24-4 vote in the national executive to oppose a proportional representation motion which will be debated on Thursday.	metaphorical	1
The four were Mr Cook, Ken Livingstone, John Evans and Clare Short.	literal	0
Mr Livingstone said he was against pacts, but 10 years of Thatcherism had demonstrated the dangers of giving power to elites.	metaphorical	1
However, Neil Kinnock, the Labour leader, and Roy Hattersley, his deputy, both opposed the motion.	literal	0
Mr Hattersley said giving disproportionate power to small, minority centre parties would not improve democracy.	metaphorical	1
Mr Kinnock said it was wrong to propose a fundamental change in the voting system for a short-term tactical vote to get rid of the Thatcher Government.	metaphorical	1
The only way to remove the Government was for Labour to win the next general election.	metaphorical	1
Mr Kinnock intends to reinforce his conviction that Labour is in a position to win in his keynote speech tomorrow.	metaphorical	1
Party organisers want the conference to show that the party is united as never before, leaving Mr Kinnock free for the first time to sell the policy package to voters without worrying about splits.	metaphorical	1
There is expected to be a close vote on defence, but Mr Kinnock is confident the new policy will be affirmed today.	metaphorical	1
The executive is recommending rejection of a motion calling for unilateral disarmament.	metaphorical	1
It is also urging the conference to oppose a motion, supported by the National Union of Mineworkers, to commit a Labour government to abolishing all nuclear power within 15 years.	metaphorical	1
There could also be controversy over the executive's rejection of demands for the age of consent for homosexuals to be reduced to 16 years.	metaphorical	1
PUB ROCK/ Pint-sized rock‘n’ rollers: Jim White selects the best of the London pub venues and gigs in the weeks ahead	metaphorical	1
By JIM WHITE	literal	0
GENERAL TIPS A general rule for pub rock patrons is that the quality of music will be in inverse proportion to the quality of the beer(except at Finsbury Park's Sir George Robey where an excellent music policy comes complete with a decent pint of Guinness).	metaphorical	1
Another rule of thumb is that if the act is obliged to rest their microphone stand and amplifiers on beer crates instead of the stage, it will be a good evening.	metaphorical	1
There are two types of pub rock occasions: those, like the one described above, where the band is likely to suffer from agrophobia; and those where the pub is so crowded, death through asphixiation seems to be the only way to get out.	metaphorical	1
There is no half-way house.	metaphorical	1
If it's a comfortable evening's entertainment you're after, stay at home with the video.	metaphorical	1
Dress varies, but will never be up.	metaphorical	1
WHO TO WATCH While the best that chart music can manage in the way of band names is Black Box, the pub circuit has always been ripe with imaginative handles.	metaphorical	1
Cheerfully bending ears this week somewhere in London are Bald Howlin' Bastard, Daisy Chainsaw, The Wandering Crutchless, Benny Profane, The Gordon Jackson Five and New Fast Automatic Daffodils.	metaphorical	1
We have no idea whether the music matches the nomenclature, but it must be worth£5 of anyone's money to encourage them.	metaphorical	1
PLAYING THIS WEEK TONIGHT Bop Brothers Blues Band The plethora of litigation surrounding Blues Brothers lookalikes almost matches that attached to the release of Wired, the unofficial biography of the original brother, John Belushi.	metaphorical	1
Suffice to say, whether Boogie, Bop or simply Blues, this set of Brothers, whatever they once were before they fell out and dispatched solicitors to sue their siblings, will be wearing dark glasses, pork pie hats, black side-burns and will be playing Stax/Atlantic type material.	metaphorical	1
Ca n't fail to be entertaining.	literal	0
Oh, all right it can.	literal	0
Weavers Arms, 98 Newington Green Rd, N1(226 6911) 8.30pm£2.	literal	0
Near Death Experience Hopefully simply a band name, not a prediction.	literal	0
Loud and tuneless, but has that ever been a problem before?	metaphorical	1
King's Head Fulham(details below) 8pm£2.	metaphorical	1
Well Loaded Much talked-about guitar rockers, generally regarded as destined for the bigger stadia of life, unless they self-destruct en route.	metaphorical	1
Catch them young.	metaphorical	1
Powerhaus, at the Pied Bull 1 Liverpool Rd, N1(837 3218) 7.30pm£3.	literal	0
The Vapour Corporation Power pop, which means do n't expect to leave with your eardrums intact.	metaphorical	1
Cricketers, Kennington Oval(735 3059) 8pm£3.	literal	0
Johnny Mars Blues Band Unrepentant Smiths fans need not beat a path to the door, this is nothing to do with Johnny Marr.	metaphorical	1
Dog& Trumpet 38 Great Marlborough St, W1(437 5559) 8pm Free.	metaphorical	1
Primal Scream Not a name which would lead you to expect self-absorbed acoustic doodlings.	metaphorical	1
Which is just as well, because long-haired rock is what you will get.	metaphorical	1
Plough Kenton, Kenton Rd, Harrow(907 2498) 9pm£3.50.	literal	0
FRIDAY Dr& The Medics Silly hippies in Roy Wood cast-off costumes do n't sound like the most appetising evening out, and their brief foray into the charts was a considerable embarrassment, but the good Dr's tongue is in the right place(in his cheek) and a jolly time is guaranteed.	metaphorical	1
Powerhaus N1(837 3218) 8.30pm£5.	literal	0
MON 9 OCT Steve Marriott& Mickey Hutton In among those on their way up, and those who will never go anywhere, the pub rock circuit plays host to those who were once really something.	metaphorical	1
Marriott was the chirpy Cockney sparrer who lead The Small Faces, who performed that strange pigeon-toed shuffle on Top of the Pops and wrote‘Lazy Sunday Afternoon’.	metaphorical	1
Now he steps out on beer-stained carpets and decaying floor-boards, but the conviction remains as strong.	metaphorical	1
Best of all he seems to enjoy himself.	literal	0
Not, in truth, a pub rock venue, but certainly a pub rock act.	metaphorical	1
The Monday Club, The Limelight, Shaftesbury Ave, W1 434 0572. 9pm.	literal	0
WHERE TO GO Bull& Gate, 389 Kentish Town Rd, NW5(485 5358).	literal	0
Small but perfectly formed for pub rocking(ie sweaty and restricted view from all but the front three rows).	metaphorical	1
The front bar, if the noise level becomes too oppressive, has prints of Lester Piggott decorating the wall, and a pool table.	metaphorical	1
Dog& Dumpling, 13 Southgate Rd, N1(359 6596).	literal	0
Not sure of the music policy, but the name sounds like the ingredients of a takeaway from a less salubrious Chinese.	metaphorical	1
Dublin Castle 94 Parkway, NW1(485 1773) Beloved of Camden's grunge rock enthusiasts, a temple to R'n'B, complete with priceless memorabilia decorating the brown-painted(or nicotine-stained) walls.	metaphorical	1
Back room stage so small the performers have to rest their mike stands on the floor in front.	metaphorical	1
Fulham Greyhound 175 Fulham Palace Rd, W6(385 0526) Home of heavy rock, so take your ear-plugs.	metaphorical	1
Consistently fine and determined music policy.	metaphorical	1
Half Moon Putney 93 Lower Richmond Rd, SW15(788 2387) Better known for its jazz, but a good, wholesome venue for rock nonetheless.	metaphorical	1
King's Head, Fulham 4 Fulham High St, SW6(736 1413) L-shaped room, part corridor, part bar, part dance-floor, with the stage in one corner, ensuring restricted view from virtually everywhere.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps the best atmosphere around, with uninhibited dancing and whelping.	metaphorical	1
New Pegasus 109 Green Lanes, N16(226 5930) Pub which has gone through several incarnations, most recently known as Chas'n'Dave's.	metaphorical	1
The odd policy to put the stage in the middle of the room rather than at one end leads to a diminishing of the atmosphere(the corners are seldom filled).	metaphorical	1
The stains on the carpet have survived every name change.	metaphorical	1
Sir George Robey 240 Seven Sisters Rd N4(263 4581) Named after an old musical hero, located opposite the old Rainbow, the venerable old rock institution which is now home to a religious sect.	metaphorical	1
Lots of old posters on the wall.	literal	0
Smelly back room, perfect for the sweatier excesses of the form.	metaphorical	1
Ripping yarns and moral minefields: Allan and Janet talk Ahlberg talk to Celia Dodd about their bestsellers for children	metaphorical	1
By CELIA DODD	literal	0
THESE days, no one questions the importance of good books for the under- fives.	metaphorical	1
But books that appeal to adults too are just as important; we are, after all, the ones who have to do the reading.	metaphorical	1
There are few things worse than being bludgeoned into reading a book you hate.	metaphorical	1
Story-reading should be one of the great joys of parenthood, a real meeting of adult and child minds.	metaphorical	1
With the Ahlbergs' books, it very often is.	metaphorical	1
The husband-and-wife partnership behind such classics as The Jolly Postman, Burglar Bill and The Baby's Catalogue win children over with ripping yarns and a wicked sense of humour.	metaphorical	1
They win their parents over with a rose-tinted vision of the world which is decidedly reassuring.	metaphorical	1
Their books are usually set nostalgically in the past— the Thirties and Forties are favourite periods— and often feature the perennial characters of fairy tales and nursery rhymes.	metaphorical	1
Yet they are saved from sentimentality by the wry humour of both text and pictures.	metaphorical	1
The Ahlbergs have been accused of not facing up to the harsh realities of life, of being too cosy and sweet, but their latest picture book, Bye Bye Baby, published today, breaks the mould.	metaphorical	1
In it, a small child roams the streets, talking to strangers, until he finally goes off with a woman who has been wandering about pushing an empty pram.	metaphorical	1
Curious subject matter for a children's picture book, you might think, and hardly guaranteed to win the approval of the gimlet-eyed children's book world.	metaphorical	1
But the Ahlbergs have no time for literal interpretations of their work.	metaphorical	1
How, they argue, would Alice, or The Wind in the Willows, stand up against such scrutiny?	metaphorical	1
The way to look at Bye Bye Baby, they insist, is as a‘light, surreal comedy’.	metaphorical	1
‘Certainly if you bring a literal interpretation to the story, it's a minefield,’ Allan Ahlberg says.	metaphorical	1
Bye Bye Baby gets away with its particular minefield thanks to the sleight of illustrator Janet Ahlberg's hand.	metaphorical	1
The visual inspiration for the book was the famous advert for Start-rite shoes, showing a small boy and girl walking off down a tree- lined avenue— an innocent image if ever there was one.	metaphorical	1
The Ahlberg version features a solitary figure.	literal	0
The advert gave the story its vaguely Thirties setting.	metaphorical	1
The success of the Ahlbergs' working relationship must have a lot to do with their long and happy marriage.	metaphorical	1
In spite of apparently incompatible personalities— she is small and shy, he is large and does most of the talking— they have an empathy which is essential to the way they work, a persistent mutual pestering.	metaphorical	1
The strength of the partnership is highlighted for Allan, who also works with a number of other artists.	metaphorical	1
The time-consuming nature of Janet's part in the process, combined with a bad back which prevents her spending more than a couple of hours at the drawing board every day, means she can not keep up with her husband's prolific output.	metaphorical	1
‘With other illustrators, I work at a distance— we visit and phone, but there is a point at which I ca n't pester them any more,’ Allan says.	metaphorical	1
They see themselves not as author and illustrator, with separate roles, but as a partnership of‘book-makers’, contributing equally to the process.	metaphorical	1
Allan Ahlberg says:‘In the past, a lot of children's books seemed to be the work of talented illustrators whose pictures looked brilliant framed in a gallery, but when you tried to read the book, there was nothing there, because the words started as a coat-hanger to hang pictures on.’	metaphorical	1
Given the importance they place on the interrelationship of words and pictures, the couple's working lives are surprisingly separate.	metaphorical	1
They claim to see each other less than couples who go out to work, meeting for the occasional cup of coffee in the kitchen.	metaphorical	1
Their 10-year-old daughter, Jessica, who is likely to be seen with her head buried in The Beano or a Roald Dahl novel, has provided the inspiration for many of her parents' books.	metaphorical	1
As a baby, she was fascinated by the Mothercare Catalogue, and so The Baby's Catalogue, which documents the paraphernalia of the infant's small world in minute detail, was born.	metaphorical	1
Allan's experience as a primary school teacher is another rich source of ideas.	metaphorical	1
The couple still maintain close links with local schools, where they spend hours researching, sketching and absorbing jokes.	metaphorical	1
After 10 years of teaching Allan had had enough.	metaphorical	1
‘I ran out of steam.	metaphorical	1
It's a killing job.	metaphorical	1
Little kids eat you alive, they want so much physically and emotionally.’	metaphorical	1
Every year he would have half a dozen nine- and 10-year-olds in his class who could barely read.	metaphorical	1
He treated reading as a team effort, getting them to read the Daily Mirror rather than the dull, babyish books on offer.	metaphorical	1
These days, he writes the books intended to help children learn to read.	metaphorical	1
‘A lot of books used in schools are technically readable but rather drab stories.	metaphorical	1
There's no reason why they should n't be funny or gripping even if they do n't use many words.’	metaphorical	1
Writing books for children is becoming increasingly complex, as the arbiters of the modern child's mores— librarians, teachers and publishers— lay down ever more stringent criteria.	metaphorical	1
‘The problem with children's books increasingly is that there are armies of people who are properly concerned with, for example, the way girls were always discriminated against in the past,’ says Allan.	metaphorical	1
‘That is bad, and must be thought about.	metaphorical	1
But people seem to think that stories are written to a prescription, that you sit down and say, you do n't want it to be sexist, you do n't want it to be racist.	metaphorical	1
In reality you just invent a tale, as if you were sitting round a fire in a cave.’	metaphorical	1
In fact anti-racism and anti-sexism seem to come naturally to the Ahlbergs.	metaphorical	1
Their books are full of female breadwinners and New Men changing nappies and comforting bawling babies in the small hours.	metaphorical	1
Although they are a principled pair— they once turned down the Smarties Award on moral grounds— the Ahlbergs reject the notion of children's author as moralist.	metaphorical	1
‘I would say, just sit down and tell a good story, and to hell with the morality,’ Allan Ahlberg declares.	metaphorical	1
With that characteristically strong statement, he puts his finger on the secret of the Ahlbergs' phenomenal success with adults and children alike.	metaphorical	1
The revolution the countryside needs: Christian Wolmar says Britain is lagging behind in setting up‘telecottages’	metaphorical	1
By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR	literal	0
THE information technology revolution has left large swaths of rural Britain untouched.	metaphorical	1
The only computers in many villages are those owned by the teenage boys of the affluent to play their wham-bam games.	metaphorical	1
Ashley Dobbs, an engaging young entrepreneur, is setting out to change that by creating a nationwide network of‘telecottages’.	metaphorical	1
This clever name, with its neat evocation of new and old, describes a concept which was developed in Sweden and is spreading to rural areas across the world.	metaphorical	1
In Mr Dobbs's words, a telecottage is‘a room in a village filled with computer communications that can be used by local people to learn and work’.	metaphorical	1
The equipment consists of, perhaps, four word processors, a modem, a laser printer able to produce artwork-quality output, a fax and a photocopier.	literal	0
Software programmes for desk-top publishing, word processing, accounting and business planning are also essential.	literal	0
Mr Dobbs, who is chairman of Telecottages UK, warns possible users not to get bogged down with the technology:‘The equipment is a tool to overcome what needs to be done.	metaphorical	1
People must n't think that because there's a computer, they've got to think of a use for it.’	literal	0
He reckons there are no shortages of possible uses— farmers can use it to do their accounts, women with child-care responsibilities can work in their own time on the word processors, publicity material for local craftsmen can be produced and so on.	metaphorical	1
This may sound utopian, but it has been borne out by the experience of existing telecottages.	metaphorical	1
So far about 100 have been established, mainly in Scandinavia but also in Japan and several third world countries.	metaphorical	1
As the network expands, so do the uses.	metaphorical	1
The first was opened in the village of Vemdalen in the remote forests of Sweden in September 1985.	metaphorical	1
The impact, according to Henning Albrechsten, president of Telecottages International who has been involved in their development since the outset, was immediate.	metaphorical	1
‘By holding open meetings for children and having the telecottage above the local store, people of all walks of life came in- small-scale entrepreneurs and their spouses, shop assistants, craftspeople and children.	metaphorical	1
Now, 15 per cent of the village regularly uses telecottage and at least 20 per cent has taken courses there.’	metaphorical	1
Britain is lagging behind.	metaphorical	1
No telecottages have been established, but there are several initiatives in the offing.	metaphorical	1
The most advanced is a plan for five in the north of Scotland which will be funded by the Highlands and Islands Development Board and British Telecom.	metaphorical	1
Colin Pavey of British Telecom hopes that they will be running by the end of the year.	metaphorical	1
‘Two would be business-orientated and three would be community-orientated and located in schools.	metaphorical	1
We are most interested in the idea of networking, sharing skills such as translation and using them for distance learning.’	metaphorical	1
Telephone cables in the region are being upgraded to ensure they are capable of handling faxes.	metaphorical	1
Mr Dobbs's more unlikely allies are the Women's Institutes.	metaphorical	1
Most of the workers in telecottages and many of the users are women.	literal	0
He says:‘In villages there are many women with skills who are n't using them because of child-care problems.	metaphorical	1
But they are interested in working.	metaphorical	1
Users of telecottages are given the key and people can use them at any time, which means that women can come in during the evening, early in the morning or whatever.’	metaphorical	1
He is working on a scheme with the National Federation of WI to organise a competition to celebrate next year's 75th anniversary by offering 10 telecottages as prizes for its 9,000 branches and he is hoping the WI will establish a pilot telecottage near its college in Denman, Oxfordshire.	metaphorical	1
While telecottages should become self-financing once established, they do need initial subsidy.	literal	0
The cost of providing the start-up equipment is in the order of£10,000 and Mr Dobbs thinks space is not much of a problem:‘There's usually the village hall or an empty shop.’	literal	0
Henning Albrechsten reckons that it takes three years for a telecottage to be able to function without subsidy.	metaphorical	1
In Scandinavia, with their mixed economies, money is always available, after a bit of persuasion, from both local and central government.	metaphorical	1
In Britain, the tight financial regime imposed on local councils and the reluctance of central government to take on any new expenditure makes it necessary to seek funds from the private sector.	metaphorical	1
The only government support so far has been a recommendation by the Rural Development Commission, part of the Department of the Environment, to establish a pilot scheme.	metaphorical	1
Mr Dobbs sighs:‘This is a typically British bureaucratic response.	metaphorical	1
It's been proved elsewhere that they work.	metaphorical	1
We do n't need pilots, we need telecottages.’	metaphorical	1
As for the private sector, while BT may be happy to provide pump priming for five telecottages in the north of Scotland, it is not about to bankroll a nationwide network.	metaphorical	1
Nor, it seems, is anyone else.	literal	0
There is more at stake here than just bringing boxes of sophisticated equipment to remote areas.	metaphorical	1
As Mr Dobbs, who runs a country house restoration business from his home in Micheldever, Hampshire, says:‘Villages are good places to live and work.	metaphorical	1
The village is a fantastic institution and they make people happier.’	metaphorical	1
But the villages are dying, becoming suburbs or dormitories where few people work but many sleep.	metaphorical	1
Employment in agriculture, still the main rural industry, fell from over a million in the mid-Sixties to under 100,000 now.	metaphorical	1
The aim of telecottages is to create well-paid, flexible employment which will provide new jobs and make existing rural industries more competitive.	metaphorical	1
The emphasis on high wages is important.	metaphorical	1
Villages are expensive to live in and if they are to become vibrant communities again, local people must be able to earn enough to be able to continue living in them.	literal	0
There is a wider impact, too.	metaphorical	1
The abstract talk of commuting by rail or road being replaced by information technology finds a concrete expression in the idea of telecottages.	metaphorical	1
Once people overcome their fears about computers and begin to use them in telecottages, they acquire their own equipment.	metaphorical	1
Many may eventually be able to work from home rather than commute to an office.	metaphorical	1
Henning Albrechsten says:‘Modern information technology has given people in remote regions the opportunity to overcome their worst handicap; their distance from the centres of learning and development.’	metaphorical	1
He sees them as not only strengthening small communities, but also as actually beginning to reverse the population flows from the countryside to the towns.	metaphorical	1
Britain, with its growing traffic problems, seems an ideal place for the onset of this revolution.	metaphorical	1
Despite Mr Dobbs's tireless efforts, this is another revolution which Britain is likely to be viewing from the sidelines.	metaphorical	1
Rugby Union: Welsh horizon all turns black	metaphorical	1
By STEVE BALE	literal	0
EACH new indignity in the heap visited on Welsh rugby seems worse than the last.	metaphorical	1
The selectors knew they were playing with fire when they decided to arrange a couple of club fixtures and they have duly been consumed in a conflagration of their own making.	metaphorical	1
The New Zealanders, appropriately garbed in funereal black, arrive next week to scatter the ashes.	metaphorical	1
On and off the field the national game of the Land of Song is in a discordant mess.	metaphorical	1
Losing was one thing but to lose as spinelessly as the Welsh XV did to Bridgend on Saturday was to add insult to severely injured pride.	metaphorical	1
‘In all honesty we should have won by at least 15 points,’ Brian Nicholas, the Bridgend coach, said.	metaphorical	1
As if 24-17 and derisive chants of‘Easy, easy’ were not bad enough, this humiliation was against a side who have made a wretched start to the season— a week earlier Pontypool had given them a 35-6 going- over— and were short of at least half-a-dozen first-choice players.	metaphorical	1
Four of the absentees suffered the squirming discomfort of being among the Welsh squad.	metaphorical	1
‘It's not that I do n't want to say anything but I just do n't know what to say,’ John Ryan, the Welsh coach, sighed.	metaphorical	1
His plans in ruins, he is now reduced, Micawber- like, to hoping something will turn up before his players face the All Blacks in five short weeks.	metaphorical	1
At Bridgend he looked in despair, and he almost admitted as much:‘I hope we can pull it together but sometimes I have my doubts.’	metaphorical	1
Nicholas was sympathetic:‘He is only as good as the players we give him.’	metaphorical	1
But another selector confided the truth that Wales should be giving club opposition a hammering— and at half-time, building on their win over Newbridge, it looked as if they would.	metaphorical	1
They had weathered Bridgend's early fury, conceding a try before coming back with some confidence to score three of their own.	metaphorical	1
But Wales were having us on.	metaphorical	1
From the comparative opulence of 17-6 they then slipped into penury by conceding 18 unanswered points.	metaphorical	1
Bridgend raised their game against Wales; now Wales must do precisely the same against New Zealand.	metaphorical	1
No one who was at the Brewery Field(perhaps not even the selectors) would give twopence for their ability to do so.	metaphorical	1
The backs were mainly pedestrian but the fundamental problem lay elsewhere.	metaphorical	1
Apart from Kevin Moseley's steady supply from the line-out, there was nothing much to commend in a Welsh forward effort which reverted to the very worst Eighties stereotype of static, cumbersome donkeys only too willing to slow the game to walking pace.	metaphorical	1
‘When the pressure comes on, players revert to bad habits,’ Ryan said.	metaphorical	1
The All Blacks would treat such an outmoded approach with the scorn it deserves, although on the other hand they might have been impressed with Bridgend's contrasting mobility and aggression.	metaphorical	1
The back row were swifter to the loose ball, had a clearer idea of what to do with it when they got there, and their impressive half-backs were given every opportunity— which they eagerly took— to control the game.	metaphorical	1
This was conveniently encapsulated in the first try.	metaphorical	1
Wales, characteristically, delayed the heel at a scrum, putting Robert Jones in trouble when the ball finally emerged.	metaphorical	1
He was scragged by Mike Budd, Jeremy Cooper came away with the ball, Owain Williams acted as the link, and Kevin Ellis scored: three back-row forwards and their scrum- half in perfect harmony.	metaphorical	1
Wales's instant reaction, a try by Arthur Emyr, and subsequent steady improvement, bringing well- crafted tries for Emyr and Robert Jones, promised more than was later fulfilled.	metaphorical	1
In the third quarter Bridgend had little difficulty in wiping out an 11- point deficit, Huw Bevan supporting Aled Williams's break for their second try.	metaphorical	1
It was a magnificent fightback and such was Welsh distress that they never looked like preventing it.	metaphorical	1
‘We have taken a step backward,’ Ryan said— and on this sorry evidence it looks as if it will be backwards all the way when the Test takes place at Cardiff Arms Park on 4 November.	metaphorical	1
As the Welsh squad do not meet again until 30 October, time has all but run out.	metaphorical	1
Football: Hazard hints at the missing gifts	metaphorical	1
By PATRICK BARCLAY	literal	0
HOW TO describe Saturday's match between Chelsea and Arsenal?	metaphorical	1
Well, I seem to recall a London gallery exhibiting a pile of rubbish, which was considered valid art by the proprietors and drew a large attendance.	metaphorical	1
The only redeeming feature of a goalless, worthless event at Stamford Bridge was that it did not require a grant.	metaphorical	1
Yet the Chelsea manager, Bobby Campbell, and Arsenal assistant, Theo Foley, agreed it had been a good match, and the spectators' complaints were muted.	metaphorical	1
Some even applauded the players at the end.	metaphorical	1
It takes all sorts.	metaphorical	1
Bobby Robson was there to assess World Cup candidates, but nothing positive emerged from 90 minutes of scuffling that made one almost yearn for the more measured boredom of Rangers' European Cup exit in Munich three days earlier.	metaphorical	1
At least the outcome was appropriate.	literal	0
Had either of the teams won, they would have taken the League leadership.	metaphorical	1
Instead Liverpool stayed top without kicking a ball.	metaphorical	1
Television had postponed Manchester United's scheduled visit to Anfield so it could be shown live on 22 December, the longest night.	metaphorical	1
London's leading pair, as if piqued by this, turned 30 September into the longest afternoon.	metaphorical	1
On and on it dragged.	metaphorical	1
Lacking a goal that might have altered its chemistry, it remained a matter of dull physics.	metaphorical	1
Yet many of the crowd were kept interested by the possibility of victory, which is, I suppose, what derbies are about.	metaphorical	1
They are so frequent these days in London, which has eight of 20 First Division clubs, that we must expect aesthetic considerations to be overridden.	metaphorical	1
Why, though, could these supposed championship contenders not have tried to emulate the fine passing that had sprinkled the previous weekend's Merseyside joust?	metaphorical	1
The simple answer is that Chelsea are in a false position and Arsenal, on this evidence, slightly jaded champions.	metaphorical	1
They ought to have pocketed three points in the first half-hour but Tony Adams, a more threatening centre-forward on his forays than the current Alan Smith, missed the target with two headers and David Rocastle let Dave Beasant save a penalty, much as the stretch-version keeper had done for Wimbledon in the 1988 FA Cup final.	metaphorical	1
Now an Arsenal team in peak health would have kept a grip on the match.	metaphorical	1
This one could not.	metaphorical	1
As George Graham indicated upon his side's accession to the title, they would need more composure and sophistication to match Liverpool in the longer term.	metaphorical	1
He chose not to hasten the process by buying.	literal	0
After all, he had just the man on his staff.	metaphorical	1
But Paul Davis remains unfit.	literal	0
His absence is increasingly conspicuous and Liverpool, for the moment, in a super league of one.	metaphorical	1
Davis, of course, would have walked into England's team in Poland a week on Wednesday; until last season's prolonged suspension, followed by injury, Bobby Robson had him firmly pencilled in as Bryan Robson's replacement.	metaphorical	1
Michael Thomas, several years younger, is not quite in the same class yet but may have to play in Chorzow.	metaphorical	1
If so, it will be a gamble, because he flopped on his only previous international appearance in Saudi Arabia.	metaphorical	1
The odds are favourable enough according to Chelsea's Mike Hazard, who said of his adversary:‘He could cope in Poland, not just because of his ability to close people down and use the ball well, but temperament— you saw when he scored the goal that won Arsenal the League.’	metaphorical	1
Very kind, but international players are supposed to be habitually influential, and it was Hazard who in the second half, with a few incisive passes, gifts from the heavens on a day like this, left a greater mark.	metaphorical	1
Chelsea might have won had the ball not kept turning into a Mexican bean at Kerry Dixon's feet.	metaphorical	1
Campbell's hard-working side are still trying to sort out their system, which involves a spare defender and, as far as one can see, a good deal of improvisation.	metaphorical	1
It should suit Tony Dorigo, the unblooded England left- back, though oddly his rival, Nigel Winterburn, did more rampaging on Saturday; neither, in truth, made the heart pound.	metaphorical	1
Dorigo at least had the satisfaction of seeing his direct opponent and England colleague David Rocastle withdrawn.	metaphorical	1
All in all, Bobby Robson must have found it about as fruitful as a day trying to get in touch with Brian Clough.	metaphorical	1
There was, however, one aspect that deserves commendation.	metaphorical	1
After 16 minutes Graham Roberts was injured by a tackle for which Perry Groves was booked(Steve Clarke took over as sweeper, and is likely to have several weeks in which to build on a promising display).	metaphorical	1
Roberts's ankle appeared broken, but the Chelsea players were not interested in retribution and the club, as soon as they knew the injury was less serious, put a message on the electronic scoreboard: an example of public relations from which others could learn.	metaphorical	1
Pope rejects Runcie's vision of church leadership	metaphorical	1
From ANDREW BROWN, Religious Affairs Correspondent, in Rome	metaphorical	1
THE ARCHBISHOP of Canterbury, Dr Robert Runcie, exchanged a symbolic kiss of peace with Pope John Paul II yesterday at a mass attended by thousands in St Peter's Square, Rome.	metaphorical	1
But Dr Runcie's ideas of a limited primacy— recognising the Pope as a central figure in the Christian Church, who would exercise‘a primacy for the sake of unity and mission’— have been rejected as insufficient by the Pope.	metaphorical	1
They have also aroused Protestant anger against Dr Runcie, at the same time as he has become involved in a row over his attack on the‘Pharisees’ of British society.	metaphorical	1
Though Dr Runcie and his party could not take Holy Communion at the papal mass, he had earlier celebrated the eucharist at the Anglican church in Rome after three demonstrators rose from the congregation as he ascended the pulpit; the visit has been dogged by protests from supporters of the Rev Ian Paisley.	metaphorical	1
In his sermon, Dr Runcie said:‘We should ever recognise the scandal that Anglicans and Roman Catholics must celebrate two eucharists to make one memorial of our redemption on the day of our Lord.’	metaphorical	1
Dr Runcie has gone out of his way on this visit to concede many of the doctrinal points and practices which large elements of the Church of England have traditionally found offensive in Roman Catholicism.	metaphorical	1
The Pope, too, has spoken warmly of unity.	metaphorical	1
On Saturday the two prelates attended a service of vespers at the Church of San Gregorio, which stands on the site where Pope Gregory sent St Augustine of Canterbury off to become the first Archbishop of Canterbury in 597.	metaphorical	1
But in their prepared homilies the Pope and the Archbishop addressed quite different problems.	metaphorical	1
Dr Runcie repeated his offer of a limited primacy, involving the limited powers exercised by the popes in the first few centuries of the Christian Church.	metaphorical	1
However, the Pope's account of the role of the papacy went a great deal farther than that: Christian unity, he said, must be founded on the faith in Christ that was handed on by the Apostles; what this faith is must be determined by the Roman Catholic Church.	metaphorical	1
He quoted the Second Vatican Council:‘The task of giving an authentic interpretation of the Word of God… has been entrusted to the living teachting office of the Church alone.	metaphorical	1
The specific role of bishops which is to be exercised in communion with the see of Peter in ensuring the unity and continuity of the faith is vital if we are to hand on the faith of Peter, Gregory and Augustine.	metaphorical	1
All our efforts to restore unity among Christians will be in vain if they are not carried out in total fidelity to the faith in Christ… handed on by the Apostles.’	metaphorical	1
In a statement afterwards Dr Runcie stressed that he was not proposing any change in the British constitution.	metaphorical	1
‘The phrase‘universal primacy’ has a spiritual meaning.	metaphorical	1
It does not imply political supremacy, and does not suggest that the Pope should administer the affairs of the Church of England,’ he said.	literal	0
Both prelates referred to the consecration in February of the Rt Rev Barbara Harris as the Anglican Assistant Bishop of Massachussetts.	metaphorical	1
Bishop Harris is quite unacceptable to the Vatican.	metaphorical	1
The Pope said:‘Events in recent years have seriously aggravated the differences between us.’	metaphorical	1
The Independent has learnt that 1,800 American Roman Catholic nuns wrote last winter to Dr Runcie, urging him to defy the Pope over the ordination of women.	metaphorical	1
Sister Margaret Traxler, of the National Coalition of American Nuns, said that she had told Dr Runcie:‘The Roman Catholic Church says this is a deterrent to unity; but we say, how can this be a deterrent to unity when discrimination against women is evil?’	metaphorical	1
She said she had received a‘friendly and brotherly’ reply from Dr Runcie.	metaphorical	1
Labour‘would keep tight rein on spending’	metaphorical	1
By ANTHONY BEVINS, Political Editor	literal	0
JOHN SMITH, the shadow Chancellor, yesterday set the overriding tone for this week's Labour Party conference with a warning that he would impose tough spending controls if Labour won the next election.	metaphorical	1
His warning casts doubt on Labour's commitment to increase spending on‘priority’ programmes for the health service and pensions.	metaphorical	1
Mr Smith said in an interview on BBC television's On the Record that he did not expect his colleagues to‘spend and spend again' when they took office.	metaphorical	1
He conceded that there would be disputes with colleagues, but said:‘There are no quick fixes, and I will not be indulging in any quick fix.	metaphorical	1
A quick fix clearly becomes unfixed.	metaphorical	1
There are realities that I can not change.	metaphorical	1
There will be the reality of the economic situation which we inherit, which will not be our fault, but it will be our responsibility.	metaphorical	1
When we've got an economic mess, the first duty of a government is to clear up the economic mess.	metaphorical	1
‘Now if that means we have to postpone some of our social ambitions, then we may have to do so.	metaphorical	1
But it will not mean that we are abandoning them.	metaphorical	1
We will tackle putting our economy in order so that we can achieve that social ambition, so that the strong economy is used to finance and develop the fair society.’	metaphorical	1
As for his colleagues, Mr Smith said:‘We're all agreed that we can not spend what we have not earned and we intend to earn it before we spend it.	literal	0
That will be the guiding light of the next Labour government.	metaphorical	1
When I insist on that priority, as I can tell you I most certainly will— with the full support of the Prime Minister in doing so— then I'm sure my colleagues will see the point of that.	metaphorical	1
‘Now it is quite right of them, of course, to allow our social obligations not to be forgotten; there'll probably be an argument.	literal	0
There are in all governments between the Treasury and spending ministers.	metaphorical	1
But they will take into account the need for that balance that says that social spending without underpinning by economic growth will not be sustained in any event.’	metaphorical	1
Mr Smith's warning coincided with a call by Ken Livingstone, the Labour MP for Brent East, who said on London Weekend Television's The Walden Interview:‘You can be miles ahead in the polls, but when you get to the last three weeks, people think,‘Can I afford a Labour government?’	metaphorical	1
We need to say now what we are going to spend: where the money is going to come from.’	metaphorical	1
Mr Livingstone called for cuts in defence spending.	metaphorical	1
David Blunkett, another member of the national executive, told a conference fringe rally organised by the soft-left Labour Coordinating Committee that Labour would have to find additional funds for its social programme by cutting£9.5bn from defence spending over five years, and raising the level of taxation on the rich.	metaphorical	1
The policy review's top rate of income tax- 50 per cent— was too low, he said.	metaphorical	1
Although the policy review will be endorsed by the conference, giving Neil Kinnock the freedom to go on to the offensive against the Conservatives in the run-up to the next general election, there are a number of areas of potential conflict.	metaphorical	1
Calls for consideration of electoral reform and a new form of black representation are both expected to be defeated.	metaphorical	1
Ron Todd, the general secretary of the transport workers' union, said that today's vote on the multilaterist nuclear defence policy would not yield the‘massive and overwhelming’ majority predicted by right- wingers, and he warned that party leaders could not expect everybody to‘goose-step’ in the same direction once the policy had been carried.	metaphorical	1
The conference opened with Labour buoyed by a series of weekend opinion polls giving leads of from 5 to 12 points.	metaphorical	1
An atmosphere poisoned by mistrust	metaphorical	1
By NICHOLAS ROE	literal	0
The disposal of toxic wastes is one of the most intractable problems facing industrialised societies.	metaphorical	1
Even though some of the most dangerous and persistent toxins, including polychlorinated biphenyls, PCBs, are no longer manufactured, quantities of them still exist, and must be got rid of.	metaphorical	1
But how?	literal	0
And where?	literal	0
On this page, Nick Roe visits a plant which, despite strenuous public relations efforts, has failed to convince its neighbours that it has come clean.	metaphorical	1
And Richard North looks at current provisions for the destruction of PCBs, and at the history of British involvement in a rather uncomfortable growth industry The security guard at the entrance to one of Britain's mightiest hazardous waste disposal plants pressed a button and the gate opened.	metaphorical	1
Then he pressed another knob and a big toy doll in his office window dropped its trousers.	metaphorical	1
You had to laugh.	literal	0
Yet this was Rechem International's high-temperature incineration plant at Pontypool in Gwent, South Wales.	metaphorical	1
Hardly a laughing matter, surely?	literal	0
Beyond the barrier lay some of the most toxic chemicals known, awaiting destruction by fire.	metaphorical	1
What else?	literal	0
A vast, smoke-blackened furnace; 100 people to do the work; massive investment— the company spent£2m last year on cleaning up smoke emissions.	metaphorical	1
Plus a backdrop of houses covering the valley walls on either side, a reminder that wherever industrialised societies decide to deal with their most intractable problems, they are unlikely to find a place to do so which is not in somebody's back yard.	metaphorical	1
Britain grinds out almost five million tonnes of hazardous waste each year, of which about 63,000 tonnes are so difficult to store or treat that they are burnt at high temperatures here in Gwent or at one of three other centres: Ellesmere Port; Fawley, near Southampton; and the unfortunately named Killamarsh, near Sheffield.	metaphorical	1
Five more incinerators currently proposed in various parts of the country will double capacity.	literal	0
Then there are the imports: 83,000 tonnes of toxic waste enter British ports annually for incineration or other treatment, a figure which has increased 20-fold in just eight years.	metaphorical	1
In these environmentally conscious times, this is an uncomfortable growth industry.	metaphorical	1
Liverpool dockers recently turned back parts of a 1,500-tonne consignment of Canadian PCBs(polychlorinated biphenyls) bound for this plant in Gwent.	metaphorical	1
In doing so, they underlined a fact which is likely to attract more and more attention as tankers continue to shift toxins from town to town, country to country: the waste chain is long.	metaphorical	1
It snakes in and out of ports, along our busiest highways and through our most crowded cities.	metaphorical	1
Anxieties which are currently felt most acutely by those living near destruction plants themselves may not always remain so localised.	metaphorical	1
At Pontypool, the collision between a precise, scientific industry and a diffuse, unscientific local suspicion is painfully apparent.	metaphorical	1
Local people mutter and march, make speeches and throw things; staff face sarcasm in nearby pubs; and for years there have been demands for a public inquiry.	metaphorical	1
Rechem has responded with a rather desperate open-door policy aimed at soothing fears, and more recently by issuing about a dozen writs against the fiercest critics.	metaphorical	1
‘We are an aggressive company,’ admitted David Wheeler, operations director at this plant and at Rechem's other incinerator, at Fawley.	metaphorical	1
For a place so hated, the Pontypool plant looks innocuous inside, like a cross between an oil refinery and a crematorium.	metaphorical	1
Mr Wheeler, an engineer who worked for many years in the oil business, is a pleasant, slightly worried-looking man who can not bear the fact that no one seems to realise just what lengths he goes to in order to keep the plant squeaky clean and emission- free.	metaphorical	1
In hard hats and protective glasses, we walked past the huge‘fume cupboard’ where the most noxious barrels are opened, and arrived at the vast, closed mouth of the furnace itself.	metaphorical	1
It was hot, but not burning.	literal	0
There was a fault on the computer governing the plant, said Mr Wheeler, and the fire had automatically shut down.	metaphorical	1
These pipes stretching thinly in a bridge across the service road injected a mix of chemicals into the walls of the furnace itself; did I know that fuel was only used in the start-up process, after which the chemicals themselves provided the fire?	metaphorical	1
Workers in blue overalls drifted around us and cracked jokes in gentle Welsh accents.	metaphorical	1
In the furnace control office I found shift foreman Keith Thomas and asked innocently if he had any physical problems:‘Not since my vasectomy.’	metaphorical	1
A grin.	literal	0
He lived locally, so how did neighbours view his job here?	metaphorical	1
‘You get sarcasm mainly.	metaphorical	1
A lot of my friends are pleased that the company is doing the job they are doing.	metaphorical	1
Others are not so well informed.	literal	0
You could n't hope to convert them.’	metaphorical	1
At a nearby house, Leonard Hough, a retired schoolmaster, had earlier told me about‘the fog’ which he says comes from the factory.	metaphorical	1
‘It blows along the valley.	metaphorical	1
They've improved the chimney recently and it's very much better than it was but we still get the smells.	metaphorical	1
And since they've refused repeatedly to have a public inquiry into what is going on there we're not certain of the safety of what's coming out.	metaphorical	1
We get smoke from the steel works across the valley, but we know what that is and we're not afraid of it.’	metaphorical	1
Keith Thomas pressed a button and a huge door clanked upwards so that I could peer into the heart of the furnace.	metaphorical	1
Piles of ruddy-brown ash lay heaped on the floor.	metaphorical	1
Pumps sucked air inwards.	metaphorical	1
Heat shone out.	literal	0
In here, they burn about 30,000 tonnes of chemicals a year, a quarter originating outside Britain.	metaphorical	1
The waste arrives at the rate of up to seven tanker-loads every day— that is seven lorries passing thousands of doorsteps.	metaphorical	1
Right here, in this gaping mouth, lies the end of the chain.	metaphorical	1
The wastes include lindane, DDT, out-of-date drugs, carcinogenic chemicals, old cigars and even pornography(a different kind of pollution).	metaphorical	1
About 7,000 tonnes of the total waste is PCB-contaminated.	metaphorical	1
PCBs are so difficult to destroy, that Rechem's emission-monitoring systems are geared to detecting them on the grounds that if you destroy PCBs you destroy everything.	metaphorical	1
This, of course, is a key point.	metaphorical	1
If you did not burn chemicals like PCBs, what else would you do with them?	metaphorical	1
The sea?	literal	0
The earth?	literal	0
‘We are not in the business of polluting the environment,’ Mr Wheeler insisted.	metaphorical	1
‘We are on the side of the angels.’	metaphorical	1
Environmental organisations, however, put the emphasis elsewhere.	metaphorical	1
‘There is no incinerator which completely destroys toxic wastes,’ Madeleine Cobbing, Greenpeace's toxics campaigner, told me.	literal	0
‘The crux of our argument is that we do n't need to have toxic wastes and the fact that plants like Rechem exist, providing easy options for companies, is acting as a disincentive for companies to clean up.’	metaphorical	1
But— another but— what about the PCBs that already exist?	metaphorical	1
Although they are no longer manufactured, they are still present, for example in electrical equipment.	literal	0
No one could therefore call for the closure of incineration plants at a stroke, because noxious chemicals have to go somewhere.	metaphorical	1
So a part of the argument switches to the kind of incinerators you allow while industry is forced to clean itself up.	metaphorical	1
Also, how these should function and— perhaps most important of all— where you put them.	metaphorical	1
Mr Wheeler, now moving to the rear of the plant to show off the£2m smoke-cleaning section, which had just broken down, pointed out that his company achieved destruction of at least 99.9999 per cent of all materials.	metaphorical	1
The company's figures imply that when you have burnt 99.9999 per cent of a 30,000-tonne annual throughput, a figure of 0.03 of a tonne remains.	metaphorical	1
In 1986, according to Friends of the Earth, a survey of the homes clustered on the surrounding hills found that three-quarters of 800 residents were opposed to the Rechem plant.	metaphorical	1
‘The plant should be relocated because it's in the wrong place,’ Llew Smith, the local Euro-MP, told me.	metaphorical	1
‘It is in a valley and in a highly populated area.’	literal	0
What did Mr Wheeler make of that?	metaphorical	1
‘If we do it properly any spot is the right spot,’ he insisted.	literal	0
Stack emissions of PCBs were below the American standard for breathing air- 1,000 times lower than the British equivalent.	metaphorical	1
Regular soil and grass tests showed no difference between PCB contamination in the immediate area and elsewhere in Wales— though there are no established‘safe’ levels for these.	metaphorical	1
Five air-monitoring plants had been installed(he took me to see them).	metaphorical	1
And here were drums of chemicals, each labelled, each with a job number to check against sampling.	metaphorical	1
And yet there are accidents.	literal	0
In 1987, aluminium melted in the furnace, reacted with water and exploded, sending a black cloud over nearby houses.	metaphorical	1
Later, drums supposedly containing carcinogenic drugs were not opened for checking before burning(for health reasons) and three were‘misdescribed’.	metaphorical	1
They, too, reacted with water, and a plant operator was burned by a cloud of acid gas.	metaphorical	1
We walked past a tanker where a huge man named Andy Matthews was pumping vinyl acetate into a 10,000-gallon vat, wreathed in its sweet, sickly smell:‘I've been here two years,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
‘My father was an industrial chemist and he said if you want to go and work for them, go and work for them.’	literal	0
Were there any spillages?	literal	0
He shrugged.	literal	0
‘Nothing major.	literal	0
I might drop a pipe— a little bit of a splash.’	metaphorical	1
In a large, prefabricated shed we wandered past stacks of 45-gallon drums of PCBs, two drums high, about 10 deep; and there were contaminated transformers waiting to be cut up and roasted in the flames.	metaphorical	1
Back along the waste chain, the Liverpool dockers who objected to the import of exactly this type of chemical should be aware that PCBs are moving about our roads all the time.	metaphorical	1
There was no difference between the liquid in these drums and the liquid in the cargoes they refused to touch.	metaphorical	1
In Liverpool, a dockers' spokesman with the Transport and General Workers Union admitted:‘Drivers are n't happy handling some of these commodities, but at least a lorry-driver has more idea of what he is handling than a docker, who could have a consignment and just not know what it is.’	metaphorical	1
Yet he did not oppose all toxic waste movement(after all, the same union represents workers at Rechem itself); he simply did n't like the idea that big industrial nations like Canada could dump their dirty problems on this country and his members.	metaphorical	1
Driving away, I noticed that the vast chimney was still not functioning, but when I called at a neighbouring house a woman showed me videos she had taken of smoke coming from the plant, settling in her garden.	metaphorical	1
Certainly the incinerator seems well controlled.	literal	0
Certainly there is no scientific evidence that living nearby increases the risk of sickness.	literal	0
Certainly, Mr Wheeler convinced me that his company was going to huge lengths to keep itself clean.	metaphorical	1
‘We must run it safely in the short term and long term,’ he said,‘because if people are able to demonstrate that we are causing an environment problem we will be shut down.’	metaphorical	1
In April 1985 a tanker spilled 200 litres of PCBs over the main Trans-Canada Highway on the border between Ontario and Manitoba.	metaphorical	1
A section of the road was shut for a week and motorists were warned to clean their cars and to dispose of the rags in plastic bags.	metaphorical	1
Health Update: Crack connection with Aids	metaphorical	1
By OLIVIA TIMBS	literal	0
THERE is much concern in the US about the addiction to‘crack’(purified cocaine) within inner-city communities.	metaphorical	1
Doctors are worried that women turning to prostitution to finance the habit are at risk of contracting Aids.	metaphorical	1
This problem has spread to the UK.	metaphorical	1
In the past two months, doctors at the Regional Addiction Treatment Unit in Birmingham have come across five patients addicted to crack.	metaphorical	1
Three are prostitutes introduced to the drug by pimps.	metaphorical	1
According to them, crack is widely available in Birmingham and most prostitutes they know use it daily.	literal	0
The doctors point out in the British Medical Journal that, though crack dependency is not a direct risk factor for Aids, prostitutes‘trying to maintain expensive crack habits may be tempted into unsafe sex practices… which in turn may lead to an increase in the spread of Aids’.	metaphorical	1
Health Update: Zinc deficiency in pregnancy	metaphorical	1
By OLIVIA TIMBS	literal	0
FADS for vitamin supplements have been overtaken by a vogue for minerals and trace elements.	metaphorical	1
Zinc is the latest: lack of it supposedly causes a range of problems, although little scientific evidence supports the link.	metaphorical	1
But some reports have suggested that low zinc levels may lead to problems in pregnancy, from difficult labour to congenital malformations in children.	metaphorical	1
There is stronger evidence that a zinc deficiency may cause the foetus to grow slowly in the womb.	metaphorical	1
Doctors in Bristol decided to test the theory.	literal	0
In a study of nearly 500 women, they found that zinc supplements did not improve either foetal health or reduce the number of pre-term labours.	metaphorical	1
The doctors conclude in the British Medical Journal that there would be little benefit if all women in the UK were given zinc supplements during pregnancy.	metaphorical	1
They recognise, however, that the women in their study were largely middle-class, who might well have sufficiently large zinc stores because they were well nourished.	metaphorical	1
Further studies, the researchers believe, should concentrate on pregnant women known to have a zinc deficiency or to be at risk from problems during labour.	metaphorical	1
Health: Alternative cures‘not proven’	literal	0
By OLIVIA TIMBS	literal	0
RENEE HENRY underwent a lumpectomy and radiotherapy for her breast cancer.	literal	0
Dr Maurice Slevin, a consultant physician at the department of medical oncology at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, said the chances of a woman being alive and well four years after such treatment were at least 75 per cent.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Henry refused the drug treatment given to reduce the chances of a relapse, but there are many who would remain well without it, Dr Slevin said.	metaphorical	1
Part of the attraction of alternative cancer treatments such as the Gerson therapy is that they allow a patient to feel more in control of the treatment.	metaphorical	1
Dr Slevin agreed that this is often beneficial, but is concerned about other aspects of such therapies.	metaphorical	1
Very few have been evaluated, and the evidence is largely anecdotal, he said.	literal	0
Some of the treatments have dramatic side-effects.	metaphorical	1
‘If they do work, that is wonderful— but we have no way of knowing for sure.	metaphorical	1
There have been no controlled trials of the Gerson therapy.	metaphorical	1
‘If one of my patients wants to give up a potentially curative treatment in favour of an alternative therapy, then I will try to dissuade them.	literal	0
But it is essentially up to the patient.’	metaphorical	1
He said the NHS should address itself more to the needs of cancer patients so that they do not feel they have to go outside the system.	metaphorical	1
They should be offered relaxation therapy and stress management, and advice on diet and exercise, he said.	metaphorical	1
The Imperial Cancer Research Fund and the Cancer Research Campaign are conducting a joint study of the Bristol Cancer Help Centre, which offers a holistic programme— dietary advice and emotional counselling— to complement medical treatment.	metaphorical	1
Media: Return of the six-gun saga: Modern actors can not ride and young viewers do not understand the cowboy code, but a revival of the western looms on the horizon, John Lichfield says	metaphorical	1
By JOHN LICHFIELD	literal	0
Where are the TV westerns of yesteryear?	literal	0
What happened to Ben Cartwright, Hoss and Little Joe?	metaphorical	1
Where is the Wagon Train that seemed permanently to be circling its wagons waiting for a drunken pioneer's wife to have twins in the last of them?	metaphorical	1
The TV western seemed to fade into the sunset some time in the mid-1970s, victim of a narcissistic age that preferred to look at prosperous, smart-alecky or violent images of itself(Dallas, Cheers, Miami Vice).	metaphorical	1
It was a time when children were encouraged to fantasize about machines and outer space rather than marvel at the open spaces where the deer and buffalo roamed.	metaphorical	1
Now, however, it seems, the wheel has turned full circle.	metaphorical	1
The western is being revived, reinterpreted for the 1990s.	metaphorical	1
One of the most successful Hollywood TV producers, David Jacobs, the creator of Dallas, believes the western also fell victim to late 1960s iconoclasm.	metaphorical	1
‘The John Wayne stereotype was rejected, along with his conservative values,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
A series of spoof or obsessively realistic 1960s westerns(Cat Balou, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Soldier Blue, The Wild Bunch) stripped the mask from the Lone Ranger's face.	metaphorical	1
The legend could not be taken seriously any longer in what had been, admittedly, a threadbare form.	metaphorical	1
Howard Rosenberg, TV critic of the Los Angeles Times, said:‘Just look at the re-runs of the old western series.	metaphorical	1
You had heroes scotch-taped to their horses and lightly sprinkled with dust.	metaphorical	1
You ca n't get away with that any more.’	metaphorical	1
John Mantley, producer of Gunsmoke for CBS for 11 years, says elements of the old story began to fall apart.	metaphorical	1
‘We all read Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee.	metaphorical	1
We knew that the US Government had signed 453 treaties with the Indians and broken every one.	metaphorical	1
A part of the myth just did n't work after that.’	metaphorical	1
At their peak in the mid-60s, there were 39 western series on the three American TV networks— almost two a day on each channel.	metaphorical	1
In the US weekly audience ratings in 1965, there were three westerns in the top five, and seven in the top 10.	metaphorical	1
By the mid-80s they had all gone the way of the buffalo: extinct save for preservation in the national park of permanent re-runs.	metaphorical	1
Gene Autry, the first TV cowboy, now 82, says westerns dominated the early days of TV partly because they had lively, cheaply produced visuals, but mainly because early TV was starved of feature films by the studios.	metaphorical	1
Westerns were a handy substitute.	metaphorical	1
There are encouraging signs, however, that the TV western is struggling back into the saddle.	metaphorical	1
Paradise, launched on CBS last season and shown on BBC1 this summer, was the first new western serial for a decade.	metaphorical	1
It was the only new drama series in US network TV to be allowed a second series this year, despite a relatively lowly 49th ranking in the ratings.	metaphorical	1
Its creator and executive producer is, perhaps surprisingly, David Jacobs.	literal	0
Why did he follow J R Ewing, the epitome of 1980s TV, with a western about a gunfighter turned foster father?	metaphorical	1
‘I believed the genre was still an important and powerful one.	metaphorical	1
It's something I've always had an affection for.	metaphorical	1
I found it was possible with Paradise to talk about individual and personal responsibility, something which if set in a contemporary context would have had a preachy feel about it.’	metaphorical	1
Lonesome Dove, a five-part story of a Texas-to-Montana cattle drive, also shown on CBS last year, was the best-watched TV mini-series of any kind in America for five years.	metaphorical	1
It won substantial critical acclaim and will show in Britain next year.	metaphorical	1
The 1989-90 season, which started this month, brought another new prime-time western series, ABC's Young Riders, which tells the story of the Pony Express.	metaphorical	1
It also says a lot about modern American TV.	metaphorical	1
Because the networks believe westerns appeal mainly to middle-aged men, Young Riders has a cast of five pouting young male actors, in an attempt to make a western with‘good demographics’.	metaphorical	1
The effect is rather like an extended advertisement for Marlboro Lights.	metaphorical	1
Westerns are no longer a cheap option.	literal	0
The classic western TV series were filmed in back-lots, or in the semi-desert 20 miles from Los Angeles.	literal	0
Modern audiences no longer accept plastic bushes, and the southern Californian suburban sprawl means the production companies have to take their horses and cows to locations far away in Arizona or Montana.	metaphorical	1
David Jacobs also points out that the cost of hiring a stage-coach is now prohibitive.	metaphorical	1
‘At one time there were dozens of companies which specialised in renting out western paraphernalia.	metaphorical	1
Now there are maybe two.	literal	0
The cost has gone through the barn roof.’	metaphorical	1
And actors can no longer ride.	literal	0
They have to be sent to‘cowboy school’.	literal	0
Westerns, by their nature, demand more time on location.	metaphorical	1
As a result, Mr Jacobs says, it cost nearly as much to make an episode of Paradise, with relatively unknown actors, as an episode of Dallas, with its big stars.	metaphorical	1
Will the western ride again?	metaphorical	1
John Mantley is cautious.	literal	0
‘Westerns have a gladiatorial, timeless quality.	metaphorical	1
On the other hand you have a whole generation of TV watchers that does n't really know the rules.	metaphorical	1
A western is like a Japanese Noh play.	literal	0
It is a stylised drama with understated dialogue that depends on recognition of key words and concepts.	metaphorical	1
Many of the young people today have n't the first idea of what's going on.’	metaphorical	1
In the inert 1950s the western represented a troubled, adventurous American past.	metaphorical	1
In the anxious and eventful late 1980s and 1990s, they may come to represent, like All Creatures Great and Small in Britain, a less confusing past with simpler, deeper values.	metaphorical	1
Maybe.	literal	0
On the other hand The Young Riders came 51st in the ratings in its first week, trailing far, far behind all the modern myths about modern times such as The Cosby Show, Roseanne, Golden Girls, Cheers and Matlock.	metaphorical	1
It is premature, then, to say that the western has galloped back to centre screen.	metaphorical	1
But there is a puff of dust on the horizon.	metaphorical	1
Law: Always take along a friend to sue: Litigation can pay off even in the unlikeliest circumstances.	metaphorical	1
Stephen Gold explains	literal	0
By STEPHEN GOLD	literal	0
WHEN things go wrong you can sue more often than you may think.	metaphorical	1
Money may not have changed hands.	metaphorical	1
Someone may have even done you a favour.	literal	0
It does n't matter.	literal	0
As long as you can show that they owed you a legal duty to be careful and have been negligent, damages could come your way.	metaphorical	1
There are a number of points to bear in mind.	metaphorical	1
Take up references before giving credit, lending money, letting in tenants, taking on staff.	metaphorical	1
Ask banks, building societies, former landlords, present and past employers.	metaphorical	1
If you rely to your detriment on a misleading reference which was given negligently, you should be able to sue the referee.	metaphorical	1
The subject of a bad reference can sue the referee for libel but has to show the referee was up to no good: spite, ill-will or some improper motive will do.	metaphorical	1
Take along a prosperous adviser on all shopping sprees, demonstrate a high degree of trust and strong reliance in what they say and you may have unexpected protection should the seller go out of business and the goods fall to pieces.	metaphorical	1
A 26-year-old woman accountant who knew nothing about the mechanical side of vehicles asked her more knowledgeable friend to find a car for her.	metaphorical	1
She stipulated that it must never have been involved in an accident.	metaphorical	1
The friend found one at a garage.	literal	0
Although he failed to check it had been accident-free, he assured the lady that this was the case.	metaphorical	1
She bought it.	metaphorical	1
It had been in an accident and it was worthless.	metaphorical	1
In May last year the Court of Appeal upheld a judgment against the friend for more than£5,500 damages for negligence because he had owed the accountant a duty of care.	metaphorical	1
Your conservatory collapses as a result of negligence of the professionals who were engaged by the previous owner to put it up.	literal	0
You can sue the professionals— builders, architects, surveyors or engineers— by courtesy of the Defective Premises Act 1972, despite the fact that you never had a contract with them yourself.	metaphorical	1
There are strict time limits: generally, six years from when damage first occurred; where the damage was initially‘latent’ you are given longer— three years from when you could have discovered it, with a long stop of 15 years.	metaphorical	1
It may also be possible to claim damages against a local authority for negligently failing to ensure that construction work complied with the relevant building regulations.	metaphorical	1
A solicitor fails to draw up a will within a reasonable time for a client who subsequently dies.	metaphorical	1
You lose the gift which the will would have made.	metaphorical	1
You can sue the solicitor for what you would have collected, had he done his job properly, because the law reckons he owed you, as well as his client, a duty of care.	metaphorical	1
When you want to borrow on a mortgage, the prospective lenders will have the property valued at your expense.	metaphorical	1
There is no contract between you and the valuer.	metaphorical	1
But if the valuer is negligent and you buy the property relying on his report, you may still be able to sue him for damages.	metaphorical	1
This is what the House of Lords decided in two cases last April in spite of an attempt to get the valuers off the hook by a disclaimer which said:‘I accept that the valuer does not warrant anything stated in his report as being accurate…	metaphorical	1
‘Alas, disclaimers may work if, for example, the property being valued is industrial or an expensive house.	metaphorical	1
Disclaimers may also be used by referees and others to rob you of a claim for damages.	metaphorical	1
Whoever attempts to hide behind a disclaimer must prove it is fair and reasonable to do so.	metaphorical	1
But a disclaimer can never take away your rights under the Defective Premises Act 1972 for the collapsing conservatory or prevent anyone being sued for negligence which has caused death or injury.	metaphorical	1
Have we yet reached the point at which we would be awarded damages against the Meteorological Office because we went camping on the day of an unforecast hurricane?	metaphorical	1
Or after we followed the duff advice of a legal journalist in a newspaper?	metaphorical	1
Mercifully, we doubt it!	literal	0
BOOK REVIEW/ The cause without a rebel:‘The Pale Companion’— Andrew Motion: Viking, 11.95 pounds	metaphorical	1
By MARTIN PACEY	literal	0
IT WAS unfair of Auden to suggest, in his‘Letter to Lord Byron’, that a poet's‘sense of other people's very hazy’.	metaphorical	1
But the vaporous presences that float through this slender and anaemic first novel by a notable poet would appear to support the claim.	metaphorical	1
The book— which opens a projected sequence of novels that will cover the period from 1968 to the present day— aims to explore what the blurb describes as‘the painful transition from youth to adulthood’.	metaphorical	1
This, of course, is a popular subject: it seems particularly attractive to the poet-turned-novelist because of the scope it offers for the tremulously sensitive probing of feelings.	metaphorical	1
Sensitivity, though, is not enough.	metaphorical	1
What Andrew Motion presents us with here is a static and humourless mood- piece filled with over-elaborate imagery.	metaphorical	1
The hero, Francis Mayne, is suffering from the adolescent's emotional confusion and acute self-consciousness.	metaphorical	1
He finds it hard to communicate with people, not least his separated parents.	metaphorical	1
His father is a faceless figure: a retired brigadier, reserved and taciturn.	metaphorical	1
His mother, by contrast, is the most vividly realised character in the book: nervy, flirtatious and selfish, already on her third husband, she thinks primarily of her appearance, even when visiting her dying daughter, Francis's twin.	metaphorical	1
The first half of the novel is dominated by the girl's death from leukaemia.	metaphorical	1
There is a refreshing simplicity and tenderness in Motion's account of the way Francis nurses her, but she herself is too sketchily drawn for the episode to carry much weight.	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile, at his public school, Francis is conducting a love-affair with an older pupil named Keith Ogilvie.	metaphorical	1
He is finally rejected by the devious, arrogant Keith, who informs him that he is‘obsolete’ because he does not‘know how to make things happen’.	metaphorical	1
His response to this rejection is as flat as his reaction to the massive demonstration which Keith has earlier persuaded him to join against the Vietnam War.	metaphorical	1
This violent event, described at length in hysterically colourful terms, is the only piece of history to be woven convincingly into the plot.	metaphorical	1
Other broad hints as to the date are inserted with a comical lack of subtlety:‘My God, darling, have you heard?’ exclaims Francis's mother one day as she greets him,‘Czechoslovakia.	metaphorical	1
It's been invaded.’	literal	0
Motion will have to do better than this if he seriously intends his series of novels to capture the feel of a period.	metaphorical	1
But the book's principal defect remains the vacuity of its protagonist.	literal	0
In his eagerness to depict the cloudy psychology of an adolescent, Motion has forgotten to give the boy a personality.	metaphorical	1
He has, however, given him a psychotic compulsion to formulate fanciful similes.	metaphorical	1
Hardly a page goes by without the hapless Francis noticing something which reminds him, improbably, of something else.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes he is reminded of several things.	metaphorical	1
One moment an avenue of chestnut trees looks‘like a child's drawing of ghosts’; the next it appears‘frightening but derelict, like extinguished chandeliers’; and finally the chestnuts‘prance at him, holding up their gleaming branches like hysterics.’	metaphorical	1
Such writing rapidly palls, and I hope that in the novels to come, Motion can curb his reckless passion for it.	metaphorical	1
Motoring: A lead-free lover's guide to used cars: Drivers with a tight budget and an environmental conscience can buy second-hand without losing principles, says James Ruppert	metaphorical	1
By JAMES RUPPERT	literal	0
FROM this month, all new cars submitted for British type approval, the test which allows them to be legally sold in the UK, must be able to run on lead-free petrol.	metaphorical	1
As a result of this rule, and many carefully orchestrated publicity campaigns, the motor industry's image has now changed from polluter to pal of the earth.	metaphorical	1
If you can afford an environmentally friendly G-registered runabout, then the flora, fauna and children of the British Isles will have a lot to thank you for.	metaphorical	1
But if you have a tight budget and a conscience, running older cars on lead-free fuel becomes a much more complicated issue.	metaphorical	1
Without the presence of a lead compound, an engine's valve seats go unprotected.	metaphorical	1
This leads to premature wear and plumes of blue smoke spewing from the exhaust.	metaphorical	1
The only effective remedy is to install hardened valve seats or a replacement cylinder head, both expensive options.	metaphorical	1
Less costly, but not entirely satisfactory, is the practice of making every fourth tankful leaded petrol, which protects the valve seats but rather defeats the object.	metaphorical	1
Alternatively there are several chemical additives on the market which aim to provide a substitute for lead, although the case for these products has yet to be proved.	metaphorical	1
However, many cars built within the last few years have hardened valve seats, or alloy cylinder heads that need little(simply a retune) or no modification to use unleaded petrol.	metaphorical	1
Finding out which cars can and which can not is not difficult.	literal	0
Esso filling stations have a free booklet listing most models produced since 1980, as does the charity Clear(01-387 4970), with more detail available in the Unleaded Petrol Guide(Autodale,£2.99).	metaphorical	1
Looking at those lists provides interesting reading and bears out the used-car trade's view that having a lead-only car could prove to be a liability.	metaphorical	1
It is not as if four-star leaded fuel is going to be phased out tomorrow, but more and more buyers are asking:‘Does it take unleaded?’	metaphorical	1
What is certain is that the pre-1989 Austin/MG range, all Skodas, Yugos and quite a few Lancias do not, which does not help already depressed resale prices.	metaphorical	1
A 1985 Lancia Y10(lead only) sells for around£2,000 whereas the similar Fiat Uno 55 from the same year, converted to run on unleaded, is worth around£500 more.	metaphorical	1
A lead-only second-hand car is now worth about 10 per cent less than an unleaded equivalent.	metaphorical	1
In years to come the percentage difference is likely to be much larger.	metaphorical	1
Even so, exotica such as lead-only Porsche 911s and Ferraris are unlikely to be part of this trend, so no bargains there I'm afraid.	metaphorical	1
More impressive are the Japanese manufacturers whose cars dating from the early Eighties can run on unleaded without adjustment.	metaphorical	1
Find a 1980 Toyota Corolla or 1982 Nissan Sunny that has not succumbed to rust, and you can buy with confidence.	metaphorical	1
On the home front, most Fords and Vauxhalls from at least the mid-Eighties can use unleaded.	metaphorical	1
If the‘greenness’ of going unleaded still seems a bit of a grey area, it is possible to switch to diesel without a shadow of environmental doubt.	metaphorical	1
Diesel always has been lead-free and the only adjustments you need to make are mental ones, because diesel-powered cars are no longer slow, smelly or noisy.	metaphorical	1
They also return more miles to the gallon than their petrol equivalents, although service intervals are shorter.	metaphorical	1
But after the publicity on unleaded fuel there has been increased interest in used diesel power.	metaphorical	1
But remember that these cars accrue, and can withstand, significantly higher mileages than petrol cars, 50-90,000 being the norm.	metaphorical	1
The tradition for diesel cars is far better established on the Continent and that is where the best buys come from.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps the most successful maker is Peugeot, with a complete range of cars from the small 205— around£3,000 for a 90,000-mile 1985 car— to the legendary 504=estate, about£2,000 for a 1982 example.	metaphorical	1
The Germans are also fairly accomplished manufacturers, although a five-door 1980 Golf with a six-figure mileage will still cost£1,500.	metaphorical	1
Prestige comes in the shape of a Mercedes with the 240D or‘Stuttgart Taxi’, commanding£7,000 but returning unfailing reliability.	metaphorical	1
Even if lead levels in the atmosphere do not bother you, I am sure you will find the fact that unleaded petrol is 15p cheaper, and that diesel fuel boosts mpg by at least a third, most interesting.	metaphorical	1
Auctions: Dazzling riches of the Orient	metaphorical	1
By ROGER BELL	literal	0
IT IS Asian Week at Sotheby's and Christie's.	literal	0
They are mixing Islamic art from the Middle East with Indian and South-East Asian.	metaphorical	1
The sales combine items of charm at fairly accessible prices with some rare treasures aimed at big-time collectors.	metaphorical	1
Homely Persian pottery of the twelfth to thirteenth century combines animal and bird images with sinuous plant motifs and marks the beginning of lustre wares; they are mostly priced in the£500 to£1,000 range and rate high on charm.	metaphorical	1
The Iznik pottery from Turkey dating from the fifteenth and sixteenth century explodes with colour on more sophisticated white grounds; Iznik is now highly sought after by Turkish yuppies and prices run from£2,000 or so to£15,000.	metaphorical	1
Both houses combine elegant early metalwares(twelfth/thirteenth century), bronze vessels with silver inlay— which are expensive— with nineteenth- century imitations, more flashy but in the mid-hundreds.	metaphorical	1
There are plenty of Indian miniatures, colourful and charming evocations of princely courts, priced in hundreds or low thousands.	metaphorical	1
Stone figures chipped off the war-torn temples of Cambodia are more expensive; a striking Khmer figure will cost£20,000 or more.	literal	0
There are also outstanding bits of Indian stone monuments, with gods and goddesses sensuously entwined in spiritual embrace; they start with the Gandhara grey schist carvings of the third/fourth century.	metaphorical	1
Glasgow: Clocks and scientific instruments, Wednesday 11am.	literal	0
Market Harborough: Ceramics, glass, toys, silver, musical instruments and artworks, Tuesday 10am.	literal	0
Prints, watercolours, oil paintings, furniture and architectural effects, Tuesday 1.30pm.	literal	0
Gildings, Roman Way(0858 410414).	literal	0
Drink: Desire in search of a name: Do the French have the‘mot juste’ to describe the desire for a reviving drink?	metaphorical	1
In the first of a monthly series, Michael Jackson hunts in vain	metaphorical	1
By MICHAEL JACKSON	literal	0
THANK God it's Saturday.	literal	0
I know that today is Saturday because already I am thirsty for a dry, hoppy pint of bitter at the end of the afternoon: an aperitif to sharpen my appetite for this evening's Indian meal.	metaphorical	1
How did you feel as you came to the end of your working week yesterday afternoon?	metaphorical	1
Boy, I had a thirst.	metaphorical	1
We say we are thirsty when we mean that we fancy a glass of wine, a pint of beer, a gin and tonic or a shot of whisky— the pleasure of naming our poison— at the end of a busy day or tiresome week.	metaphorical	1
That is not thirst.	metaphorical	1
To enjoy it, we do not need to be dry: just in need of a restorative or relaxant, or maybe a focus for a social moment or brief encounter.	metaphorical	1
We call it‘thirst’ in lieu of a more accurate description.	metaphorical	1
No, not more accurate:‘thirst’ is not accurate at all as a description for this apparently indescribable condition.	metaphorical	1
It is a desire millions of us know and share, yet for which we have no name.	metaphorical	1
This desire that can not find its name(though it would dare speak it, if it could) is pleasurable.	metaphorical	1
It is as enjoyable as feeling gently hungry or amorous.	metaphorical	1
No, not amorous: randy— we have a word for that.	metaphorical	1
Any of these conditions is pleasurable so long as there is a good likelihood of satisfaction in reasonably short order.	metaphorical	1
Let puritans and pessimists damn, disapprove or dismiss these appetites; that is their loss.	metaphorical	1
Those of us who enjoy them need only a name for each condition, so that we may discuss them in expectation and in recollection.	metaphorical	1
Come to think of it, neither hunger nor randiness hits quite the spot.	metaphorical	1
Peckishness and lust, perhaps?	literal	0
Or does that sound like a firm of country solicitors?	metaphorical	1
This is to digress.	metaphorical	1
What of this thirst that can be satisfied by an unquenching drink?	metaphorical	1
Wine is not quenching, but no less in demand for that.	metaphorical	1
Try to quench your thirst with a light, fresh white and you will drink enough to put you on your back.	metaphorical	1
Beer is, quite rightly, Britain's favourite Friday night drink.	literal	0
It can momentarily blunt a thirst, but not altogether cut it.	metaphorical	1
The nearest to being quenching is the‘white’ beer of Berlin.	metaphorical	1
Anything with even a modest smack of hops dries the palate ready for the next one.	metaphorical	1
So, of course, does alcohol itself.	literal	0
It may for a moment seem to quench but it dehydrates, as purportedly healthy abstainers are forever telling me.	metaphorical	1
To quench is more than to refresh although our lying, lascivious eyes tell us the two are the same.	metaphorical	1
Does any drink look more quenching than one of those Italian or French patent aperitifs, swirling in a refractive pink or russet oiliness, clothing the melting ice: a Campari, Dubonnet, Lillet or(too rare in this country) a Picon?	metaphorical	1
Are they quenching?	metaphorical	1
No, refreshing.	literal	0
In Strasburg, they have been known to lace beer with Picon, thereby ruining both drinks(as Queen Victoria reputedly did with claret and malt whisky), but still the result is not especially quenching.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps a shimmering dry Martini cocktail(minimum dilution, stirred, not shaken; and served straight up) looks even more refreshing, though its effect is that of a silver mallet.	metaphorical	1
In the right place(possibly New York, but San Francisco is better), the Martini is the ultimate‘Thank God it's Friday’ drink.	literal	0
The requirement for such pleasures is a matter of time and place, and it does not have to be Friday, Berlin or Strasburg, New York or San Francisco.	literal	0
Not feeling thirsty, but fancying a drink, has a world of moments.	metaphorical	1
Some Frenchmen start the day with a coffee and calvados.	literal	0
The people of Munich call their version of Weissbier‘breakfast beer’ and have it with a pair of coddled veal sausages.	literal	0
New Orleans favours a mid-morning milk punch, or its own variation on the gin fizz.	metaphorical	1
If the moment is before a lunch on the plane, it really ought to be a Bloody Mary.	metaphorical	1
If it is at an elegant dinner table, there is a choice between a fino sherry(or a manzanilla) or champagne.	metaphorical	1
None of these requires anything even approaching a thirst.	metaphorical	1
Do we really‘wash down’ a good meal with claret?	metaphorical	1
Port is immediately suggested by Stilton; cognac by coffee.	metaphorical	1
I do not fully appreciate the experience of an American late-night movie without a bourbon, or a book at bedtime without a single malt.	metaphorical	1
These are not moments of thirst… but nor are they causes of drunkenness(unless one tries to pack all such experiences into one day).	metaphorical	1
We do not drink because we are thirsty.	literal	0
Nor, if we are in civilised cast of mind, because we wish to become drunk.	metaphorical	1
A friend of mine says that her body tells her, without being asked, the season of the year.	metaphorical	1
At the end of summer, her body stops wanting gin and tonics and suddenly desires whisky.	metaphorical	1
If it were only a matter of alcohol, would a body care?	metaphorical	1
People will nevertheless say that the desire is for nothing more than alcohol.	literal	0
So why not a pill or an injection?	literal	0
Because there would be no colour, no ritual, no time and place, no glorious variety.	metaphorical	1
Worst of all, there would be no aroma, taste, texture or finish.	literal	0
These are sensuous pleasures at their most enjoyable when we ritualise them, but how do we feel when we desire them?	metaphorical	1
We, who have so many words in our language, have none for this.	metaphorical	1
But then, do the French, Spanish or Italians have a word for it?	metaphorical	1
Perhaps they do; maybe I have not being paying attention; too busy with the eau-de-vie, anis or grappa.	metaphorical	1
Do the Greeks have a word for it?	metaphorical	1
Could we borrow, beg or invent one?	metaphorical	1
Answers in a bottle, please.	literal	0
If you are feeling— for lack of a better word-thirsty, let's meet again next month.	metaphorical	1
Same time, same place?	metaphorical	1
It will be my turn to get them in, I think.	metaphorical	1
In the Garden Update: Growing classes	literal	0
Weekend Garden Page 43	literal	0
In the Garden Update: Weekend work	literal	0
From MARC CHAMPION in Washington	literal	0
SECATEURS are likely to be the tool most in demand now.	metaphorical	1
The summer's sprawl begins to be oppressive at this stage in the year and trigger fingers are itching to snip back overgrown mallows, clear out the mildewing foliage of golden rod and reduce the overpowering bulk of bullyboy ground cover.	metaphorical	1
Keep away from jasmine, already thick in flower bud, and clematis, however untidy.	metaphorical	1
Buddleias, although messy, should not be cut back until spring.	metaphorical	1
Dead, ragged heads of the climbing hydrangea can be removed, cutting where the stem joins the main branch.	metaphorical	1
Virginia creeper needs to be clipped back from windows and hauled out of gutters.	metaphorical	1
Mulching is a pleasant activity for October.	literal	0
It can be done in spring too, but there are usually more pressing jobs then.	metaphorical	1
Shrubs such as hydrangea particularly relish rich rations.	metaphorical	1
It is a good time to plant hardy shrubs too.	literal	0
Clematis so bristles with brittle green shoots in spring that planting then is an anxiety rather than a pleasure.	metaphorical	1
Runner beans and French beans have now given up completely and can be cleared off vegetable plots.	metaphorical	1
Globe artichokes are sprouting new leaves and may need protection from frost in cold areas.	metaphorical	1
Summer bedding is looking tired and should be removed so that the ground can be cleaned and fed ready for spring bulbs or wallflowers.	metaphorical	1
In the Garden: Planning to beat a leafy retreat at home: In the first of a series for novice gardeners, Anna Pavord stresses the value of careful forethought	metaphorical	1
By ANNA PAVORD	literal	0
PLANTS should come a long way down the list of priorities for the novice gardener.	metaphorical	1
There are many things to think about before even the first tentative daffodil bulb is sunk into the ground.	metaphorical	1
The first and most important question to mull over as you gaze at your patch is: What is this garden for?	metaphorical	1
If you start writing down some of the responses to that question, you will find you have along the way acquired a ragbag of elements that will have an important bearing on the design.	metaphorical	1
If there are small children in the equation, there will need to be a flat, soft area where they can fall off swings and climbing frames.	metaphorical	1
If you like hanging out washing rather than drying it in the bowels of an expensive machine, you will need to tuck away a line and make a dry path to get to and from it.	metaphorical	1
Some novice gardeners may not want to do much actual gardening at all, but conversely, do not want to look out every day over a scene of threadbare grass and rotting fence.	metaphorical	1
Their ideal garden will look good and demand little attention.	metaphorical	1
If you are a dedicated sun-worshipper, you need to mark out the part of the garden where the sun lingers longest.	metaphorical	1
It may not be the part nearest the house, though this is where sitting out areas always tend to be made.	metaphorical	1
You may, even as a novice, care so passionately about plants that all you want is the maximum space to grow them in.	metaphorical	1
Raised beds built down an unpromising alley could provide extra gardening space.	metaphorical	1
Privacy is an important consideration.	literal	0
A first time garden is usually small and certainly the typical one I am imagining for this series is no more than 40ft x 20ft and surrounded on all sides by other houses.	metaphorical	1
Privacy is a ticklish business where close neighbours are concerned.	metaphorical	1
To throw up an impenetrable Berlin Wall between you and them could be tactless.	metaphorical	1
Trellis is a useful compromise and you can always pretend it was forced on you by the speed of growth of your climbing rose.	metaphorical	1
Aesthetes among the novices will by now be thoroughly irritable and complaining that gardens should have as much to do with the soul as with the necessity or not of a washing line or a barbecue pit.	metaphorical	1
So they should, and when the list of necessities is securely written down, you can ask the second question: How do I want this garden to feel?	metaphorical	1
This question produces as varied a response as the first.	metaphorical	1
Some urban gardeners, as short of space inside as they are out, want their gardens to be extensions of their homes, with a great deal of hard paving, good furniture and lighting.	metaphorical	1
The garden for them should feel like an extra sitting room, gnat-ridden perhaps, damp occasionally, but an important overflow of living space.	metaphorical	1
Closet countrysiders may want to pretend their patch is actually a corner of some Sussex meadow and picture it swagged with honeysuckle and waving with ox-eye daisies and scabious.	metaphorical	1
This is a difficult trick to bring off with suburban trains hurtling by on one side and lorries grinding through their gears on the other.	metaphorical	1
A leafy retreat is an excellent goal for a small town garden, but it is best made acknowledging the urban setting, using un-wild plants such as bamboo, acanthus, fig, vine, alchemilla, euphorbia, wisteria.	metaphorical	1
While you are working through this process, take note of the features in the garden that you would like to keep.	metaphorical	1
On a new estate, there may be nothing.	literal	0
In an old garden, there may be a fruit tree, or a good bulwark of evergreen laurel or box that, tidied up, could add a dash of venerability to the new garden that will emerge around it.	metaphorical	1
If you do not know what a tree or shrub is, exercise clemency and give it a year's grace to demonstrate its worth before you turn it over to the axeman.	metaphorical	1
The mood of the garden will dictate its eventual style.	metaphorical	1
It may be clipped classical, random cottage, modern high-tech, or some intensely personal vision of Byzantium, that no one has ever imagined before, but which exists in your head and wants to get out.	metaphorical	1
Do not let anybody, particularly gardening writers, tread on your dreams.	metaphorical	1
All this thinking and doodling will have done nothing physically to change the view outside the window, but it is a vital part of the gardening process.	metaphorical	1
Before you can make, you have to know what it is you are making.	literal	0
Property: Houses that are going, going, gone: Fed up with trying to sell, more people are auctioning their home instead.	metaphorical	1
Andrew Bibby reports	literal	0
By ANDREW BIBBY	literal	0
IN THE small Devon town of South Molton, Julie Widlake is waiting with anticipation for Friday 20 October.	metaphorical	1
She and her boyfriend have had their future planned for some time: they want to start farming in a nearby village, where they also intend to build a bungalow.	metaphorical	1
First, they have to sell their present house, a two-bedroom cottage in the centre of the town.	literal	0
As is the case almost everywhere else, the market in Devon is depressed and selling has not been easy.	metaphorical	1
So instead of waiting indefinitely for a buyer, they have decided to try selling their house by auction.	literal	0
It comes under the hammer at 2.15pm on the 20th, at the Barnstaple Motel.	metaphorical	1
‘We accept that we might not get very much for it, but on the other hand we could get more,’ says Julie Widlake.	metaphorical	1
‘We've been waiting to move for a long time, and we need the money to build the new house.’	metaphorical	1
Their South Molton cottage(guide price£44,000-£46,000) is one of more than 20 lots to be put up for sale at the Barnstaple auction by Bristol and West Property Services, and one of more than a hundred which the building society subsidiary will be auctioning in eight West Country venues over a three-day period.	metaphorical	1
Bristol and West claims these auctions will help to bring some action to an otherwise slow market, and says it was overwhelmed by the response from people wanting to sell in this way.	metaphorical	1
Auctions certainly speed up the house-buying process.	literal	0
Once the hammer has fallen, the successful bidder for a house must exchange contracts immediately and pay a deposit.	metaphorical	1
Completion normally takes place four to eight weeks later and there is no opportunity for second thoughts.	metaphorical	1
As the Bristol and West explains, if a bidder does not sign the contract, the auctioneer can sign on their behalf.	metaphorical	1
‘From the vendor's point of view, the house is actually sold once a successful bid is made,’ says Graham Harrison, director of Bristol and West Property Services.	metaphorical	1
‘Many people have suffered from sales falling through and from house-buying chains, and some of our vendors feel that now's as good a time as any to sell.’	metaphorical	1
From the purchasers' point of view, auctions can also be attractive— if slightly nerve-racking as you wait for bidding to start for the house of your dreams.	metaphorical	1
The problem is that normally potential purchasers have to incur the expense of undertaking surveys and arranging mortgage finance, without any idea whether they will be able to afford the final selling price.	metaphorical	1
Not surprisingly, several estate agents report difficulties at the moment in attracting enough serious bidders.	metaphorical	1
‘With an auction, you've got to be certain that at least two buyers are there who can commit themselves, and the difficulty is that buyers who can proceed are few and far between,’ said David Phillip, a director of Yorkshire estate agents Dacre Son and Hartley.	metaphorical	1
Bristol and West hopes that by arranging collective auctions it will be able to overcome this problem.	metaphorical	1
It is also guaranteeing mortgages at 1 per cent below the normal interest rate, for endowment or pension- linked policies, on several of the houses up for sale, an interesting and innovative service for would-be bidders(mortgage surveys will already have been undertaken for these houses).	metaphorical	1
The building society will be staffing a mortgage desk at each auction, and says buyers could arrange finance there and then, subject of course to proof of income and status.	metaphorical	1
Obviously, however, Bristol and West hopes to hear from interested people in advance— if only so it can gauge the likely demand for each property before the auction starts.	metaphorical	1
‘We're trying to smooth the path for purchasers, and streamline the system,’ says Graham Harrison, pointing out that live telephone bidding will also be available for those unable to attend.	metaphorical	1
Holiday homes and commercial property have been included among the lots to be auctioned.	metaphorical	1
Although collective property auctions take place regularly in London(often primarily for investors rather than house- hunters), in country areas the more typical auction will be just for one house, and as likely as not will take place in a nearby pub or village hall.	metaphorical	1
In fact, country auctions are often the nearest many villages get to live theatre.	metaphorical	1
‘The locals come for the entertainment, and to see who's buying into their village,’ observed one auction-goer.	metaphorical	1
Pub landlords are usually only too happy to provide free accommodation.	metaphorical	1
‘It's very exciting and gets the adrenalin going,’ says David Phillip, whose firm usually undertakes auctions in the Otley area.	metaphorical	1
Only certain types of property normally come to auction, however.	metaphorical	1
Traditionally, country cottages and houses which have unusual or unique features or are in need of a lot of renovation may be auctioned, if only because valuation is likely to be difficult.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes, too, houses have to be sold by auction to satisfy the legal requirements of trustees or executors(auctions provide adequate proof that the property has been sold at the going market value, and protect trustees from future claims of negligence).	metaphorical	1
Less happily, but for the same reason, repossessed houses are often auctioned.	literal	0
Anyone considering selling by auction needs to be aware that the costs involved will be higher.	metaphorical	1
Advertising costs and any expenses incurred in hiring premises are normally passed on by the estate agents to the vendor, whether or not the auction results in a sale.	metaphorical	1
In addition, agents may charge slightly more commission than usual for a successful sale.	metaphorical	1
In Bristol and West's forthcoming auctions, a set fee of£375 plus VAT will be charged to everyone entering property to sell, with its usual agent's commission(about 2 per cent plus VAT) charged on top when sales are made.	metaphorical	1
‘We accept that we could lose the money we've paid to go to auction, but that's a risk we're prepared to take,’ says Julie Widlake.	metaphorical	1
The secret of a successful outcome depends partly on setting the right reserve price, a task the auctioneer undertakes in conjunction with the seller.	metaphorical	1
Normally, the reserve is set only days or hours before the auction, when the agents will already have a good indication of how much interest has been shown.	metaphorical	1
Too high a reserve price can mean no sale, and disappointment all round.	metaphorical	1
‘You need to understand what your clients’ expectations are beforehand,’ says Graham Harrison of Bristol and West.	literal	0
Agents and their clients may also have the dilemma of deciding whether to accept any offers made prior to the auction.	metaphorical	1
Inevitably they do not always get it right.	metaphorical	1
Peter Crowther, managing director of a Leeds business centre, recently bought two semi-detached stone cottages in Bramhope, on the outskirts of Leeds, at an auction in the village pub.	metaphorical	1
His successful bid was for£190,000 although he had made a higher prior offer which had been turned down.	metaphorical	1
On the other hand, sometimes the drama of the auction and the competition between bidders can have the opposite effect.	metaphorical	1
Another recent auction in Leeds saw a run-down stone farmhouse without water or other amenities finally fall under the hammer for£330,500.	metaphorical	1
‘Success is by no means guaranteed at auction,’ says Graham Harrison.	metaphorical	1
‘In a tough market you need to get the programme right, the price right and have a little bit of luck.’	metaphorical	1
Bristol and West Property Services(0272 294271) has produced a brochure covering all eight West Country auctions.	metaphorical	1
Design: Crossed lines over the toytown tram: City transport could soon be back on the right track, says Jonathan Glancey	metaphorical	1
By JONATHAN GLANCEY	literal	0
MODERN trams, as most continental Europeans know, neither shake nor rattle, nor do they roll.	literal	0
Sleek, solidly built, gentle on the environment, they are often an ideal form of city transport.	metaphorical	1
They also exert a fascination very much of their own as they slither round circuses and brush through old city gates, flashing arcs of lightning as they switch tracks on winter nights.	metaphorical	1
Single-car, articulated or double-decker, trams are one of the most reliable and enduring forms of public transport invented.	metaphorical	1
The orange-liveried‘1500’ series trams in Milan, for example, date from 1927.	metaphorical	1
Eventually they will be replaced, but more than 60 years on they run with the rhythmic reliability of a Swiss watch.	metaphorical	1
They are as much a part of Milan as La Scala or the Galleria Vittore Emmanuele.	literal	0
Last month it was announced that Britain will get its first new- wave trams in 1991.	metaphorical	1
Destined to run in Manchester, they will relieve traffic congestion and help to reduce the levels of carbon monoxide in the city centre, outlying suburbs and satellite towns of Bury, Altrincham, Salford, Oldham and Rochdale.	metaphorical	1
In Britain, with the main exception of Blackpool(not forgetting the single-deckers of the Isle of Man and Llandudno), trams had been largely relegated to the history books.	metaphorical	1
Otherwise, the best place to see working trams has been the tram museum at Crich in Derbyshire or else in old British Transport Commission films and Ealing comedies.	metaphorical	1
Trams disappeared from most British cities in the 1950s.	metaphorical	1
London's venerable red and cream double-deckers rumbled along the Thames embankment for the last time in 1952.	metaphorical	1
Somehow the image of the tall, thin, mournful double-deck tram with its wooden body, slatted wooden seats and growling electric motor has stuck in the British mind.	metaphorical	1
Trams, it was believed until surprisingly recently, are old-fashioned.	metaphorical	1
They had something to do with fish and chips wrapped in newspaper, men in hats, National Health specs, smog and powdered egg.	metaphorical	1
They held up the bright new diesel buses and, even worse, blocked the progress of private motorists in bulbous Austins and lumpen Humbers in canyon- like city thoroughfares.	metaphorical	1
They picked up power from a spider' s web of unsightly overhead wires.	metaphorical	1
They were inflexible in operation, draughty, and mobile reminders of TB epidemics with the enamelled‘Do Not Spit’ signs screwed to their bulkheads.	metaphorical	1
But the modern tram could hardly be more different.	literal	0
It plays a key role in keeping city streets on the move and is even the object of the best modern designers' desire.	metaphorical	1
In Milan, for example, the commission to design the new generation of‘Jumbo’ trams, which went into service in 1979, was one that leading Italian architects and designers fought over.	metaphorical	1
After all, the Jumbo, a handsome and imposing articulated unit designed by architect, engineer and critic Klaus Giovanni Koenig, will be seen on the streets of Milan for the next half-century.	metaphorical	1
Spotlessly clean and popular, the Jumbo is a long-term advertisement for Koenig's design skills.	literal	0
The modern tram is a green machine.	literal	0
Assuming the power station at the end of the line burns cleanly, the tram is virtually pollution free.	metaphorical	1
Standing at traffic lights a Koenig-designed Jumbo is, save for the chatter inside, completely silent.	metaphorical	1
The overhead wires are so slight that you have to look hard to see them.	metaphorical	1
Powers of acceleration and braking are remarkable, the latter far greater than any car.	metaphorical	1
But sadly, there is no indication that the GMA consortium which will design, operate and maintain the first of the new generation British trams in Manchester will share the looks of their Milanese counterparts.	metaphorical	1
Artists' impressions show a tram that has more in common with the flat- faced, characterless light trains of the toy- like Docklands Light Railway.	metaphorical	1
There is still time for GMA(GEC, Mowlem, Amec and Greater Manchester Buses) to consider employing an inspired architect or industrial designer.	metaphorical	1
After all, Mancunians and visitors to the Manchester conurbation are going to have to look at these mechanical millipedes for well into the twenty-first century.	metaphorical	1
Now that buses are no longer designed to enhance the streets they serve, Manchester has a chance to make a fresh start with its trams.	metaphorical	1
Manchester is not alone.	metaphorical	1
Other British towns, Croydon and Southampton among them, are also considering modern tramways.	metaphorical	1
These are all referred to as‘supertram’ networks, the implication being that the new- generation tram is an altogether more dynamic form of transport than its pre-war predecessors.	metaphorical	1
What it really means is that the new trams are a hybrid between street car and lightweight suburban train.	metaphorical	1
Although they will slip through the city centre serving the essential parts— shopping malls, leisure centres, theme parks, amusement arcades and museums— the Manchester supertrams will also head out of town on a mix of reserved track and existing railway lines.	metaphorical	1
The supertram is, in effect, a low-cost replacement for British Rail's ageing fleet of suburban diesel multiple-unit trains, those rasping diesels which change gear to the accompaniment of voluminous clouds of acrid black exhaust fumes and the blessing of train spotters.	metaphorical	1
They will perform some of the same functions, but they will not be an exact replacement for traditional trams.	metaphorical	1
And although the supertram concept will spread through major cities during the next decade, Blackpool will still be alone in its use of traditional double-deckers.	metaphorical	1
The churches built on wool: Angela Lambert enjoys the riches at the heart of East Anglia	metaphorical	1
By ANGELA LAMBERT	literal	0
UNTIL six or seven years ago, outsiders associated East Anglia with fens, flatness and the vanished Edwardian nannies of Frinton.	metaphorical	1
Its old churches, green fields and long beaches were cherished by the inhabitants of Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk and Cambridgeshire, but not yet on the tourist agenda.	metaphorical	1
Today, I was told, villagers living around the great wool churches of Lavenham and Long Melford have to bar their doors and ignore the knocking of tourists, who take them for antique shops and offer to buy their furniture.	metaphorical	1
The tourists are right.	literal	0
East Anglia on a sunny weekend is a place of matchless beauty.	metaphorical	1
Its villages look too good to be true.	literal	0
Lavenham and Long Melford, for example, have no telegraph poles, to preserve the timeless air that pervades them.	metaphorical	1
Yet you only have to read Ronald Blythe's Akenfield to realise that these picturesque, half-timbered cottages, often painted the characteristic Essex pink(pale salmon), ochre or spring-leaf green, are more prosperous now than ever in the‘real’ past.	metaphorical	1
Many are still elaborately decorated with pargeting, an ornate, patterned plasterwork practised in this area since the early thirteenth century.	metaphorical	1
Most of East Anglia's prosperity today is due to City commuters, the second-homes market and tourism.	metaphorical	1
The ideal hotel from which to explore is Dedham Hall, set among tall trees in the Vale of Dedham, looking directly across towards Dedham church on one side and Flatford Mill on the other: both painted by Constable.	metaphorical	1
The hotel lies in five acres of fields and garden, and the Slingos, who own it, make the most of their beautiful surroundings by running painting courses for about£200 a week(including breakfast and dinner), or£90 for a long weekend.	metaphorical	1
These are so popular that you will need to book at least a couple of months in advance.	metaphorical	1
The other great joy of Dedham Hall is the food.	metaphorical	1
The Slingos have their own vegetable garden, chickens, ducks, sheep and cows.	literal	0
Everything is home-grown, home-made and fresh: it tastes like forgotten food.	literal	0
If Dedham Hall is fully booked— and it may well be— try the best bed-and-breakfast we have ever found, just a few miles away at the Old Vicarage, Higham, near Colchester.	literal	0
It is a rambling Tudor house run by John and Margaret Parker, whose breakfast room and drawing room look out over a wonderful walled garden, beyond which fields of grazing cows stretch down to the river.	metaphorical	1
Another hotel that would make a good starting point for a weekend— or longer— in East Anglia is the Black Lion at Long Melford.	metaphorical	1
It changed hands recently and is now run by Stephen and Janet Errington.	metaphorical	1
After dinner there, when the moon was full and low and deep orange, we walked up the road from the hotel to Long Melford church.	metaphorical	1
Its vast walls of flint and glass and Gothic tracery were brilliantly floodlit and the churchyard cat, sleek and black as tar, greeted us querulously and led us right round the church and through the gravestones at the back, glimmering and pale in the moonlight.	metaphorical	1
We were quite alone and the great church, the size of a cathedral, was unearthly in its floodlit, moonlit beauty.	metaphorical	1
Long Melford is one of the wool churches that commemorate the wealth of East Anglia in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.	metaphorical	1
Another is at Lavenham, 10 minutes' drive up the road.	metaphorical	1
Just inside the front porch, a handwritten book is prefaced with the words‘This book has been compiled that something, more than their mere names, may be known of the Lavenham men who gave their lives for their country in the Great War.’	metaphorical	1
This is followed by 50 or so names, each with a description.	metaphorical	1
The much-thumbed book is deeply moving, and sets the tone for a walk round this glorious building, which has seen the christenings, marriages and burials of the folk of the village for more than 600 years.	metaphorical	1
East Anglia is exceptionally rich in churches and cathedrals.	metaphorical	1
There are several splendid houses near Long Melford that would make for a gentle afternoon's potter through the rooms and possessions of the rich of a few centuries ago.	metaphorical	1
The loveliest, to my mind, is Melford Hall, whose charming, octagonal Jacobean gatehouse is reached along an avenue of clipped yew trees and, with its high windows flooding the octagon with light, is my fantasy of the ideal study.	metaphorical	1
Lavenham is often called the finest medieval village in England.	metaphorical	1
It is an image of the world we have lost, its gently sloping streets converging upon the market place.	metaphorical	1
Here stand the early sixteenth-century timbered Guildhall, now a museum to 700 years of the cloth industry.	metaphorical	1
Next to it is The Little Hall, dating from the fourteenth century, with its floorboards gleaming with the patina of age, low-beamed ceilings and a tiny, unruly, charming walled garden.	metaphorical	1
Precisely next door to this is a restaurant called The Great House.	metaphorical	1
Here, in the cool, pretty setting of the dining room that was once Stephen Spender's, you will be served an exquisite three- course lunch for£9.50,£6 for children.	metaphorical	1
The wine list is small but perfectly chosen.	metaphorical	1
The service is impeccable.	literal	0
East Anglia has bookshops filled with titles like 101 Things For A Boy To Do…	metaphorical	1
Constable landscapes…	literal	0
Gainsborough's house… to say nothing of huge grey sweeps of empty beach from which, at Aldeburgh, you can buy goggle-eyed skate direct from the fishing boats as they come out of the water.	metaphorical	1
It has Colchester oysters.	metaphorical	1
It has Ely Cathedral, its great green windows casting a translucent light across the Lady Chapel.	metaphorical	1
With all this, small wonder it also has tourists.	metaphorical	1
A prayer for the brick cathedral facing St Paul's: Bankside Power Station is a masterpiece worth, preserving, Gavin Stamp argues	metaphorical	1
By GAVIN STAMP	literal	0
FROM the top of the dome of St Paul's Cathedral the view is no longer dominated by City church steeples but by an intrusive cacophony of drab, characterless Sixties boxes.	metaphorical	1
One building stands out in this dispiriting panorama of post-war mediocrity: a dark powerful mass of brickwork with a tall central tower that stands right across the Thames from Wren's dome.	metaphorical	1
This is not an office block, nor a church— although its sublime form might suggest that its architect was adept at designing cathedrals.	metaphorical	1
It is, in fact, the now redundant oil-fired electric power station that sits on Bankside next to the site of Sam Wanamaker's new Globe Theatre.	metaphorical	1
Bankside Power Station should never have been built.	literal	0
Its architect had spent the war years with fellow Royal Academicians planning the orderly and spacious London of the future, free of smoke and industry.	metaphorical	1
But, when asked in 1947 to replace an old dirty power station that had been on the site since 1891, he soon forgot such idealism and, like any architect, was glad to have the job.	metaphorical	1
The project was controversial and the power station was only permitted providing the smoke was clean and the building did not challenge the visual dominance of St Paul's.	metaphorical	1
So the single chimney rose only to 325ft, some 45ft below the height of the cross above the cathedral.	metaphorical	1
The irony is that had the tower been higher and had the teak‘scrubbers’ been less efficient, the smoke would have gone straight up into the air.	metaphorical	1
As it was, the‘smokeless shimmer of vapour’ was so cooled by cleaning that it drifted across the river to cause mischief with the leadwork on Wren's great dome.	metaphorical	1
Bankside Power Station should not have been built.	literal	0
But, as it was built, it should not now be demolished.	literal	0
That is because it is a magnificent structure, the supreme architectural expression of the heroic, monumental phase of power station design and the creation of a great architect.	metaphorical	1
Bankside was the work of Sir Giles Gilbert Scott, OM, the architect of Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral, the rebuilt House of Commons and some of the last vital products of the Gothic Revival.	metaphorical	1
He was a designer of extraordinary versatility, being responsible for the standard‘traditional’ red telephone kiosk, Waterloo Bridge and several power stations.	literal	0
Bankside represents the fullest realisation of his industrial aesthetic.	metaphorical	1
Scott's first venture into this unlikely field of design was at Battersea where, in 1930, he was wheeled in as a famous knighted architect by the London Power Company to try to make acceptable the coal-fired monster power station to which the residents of Chelsea and Westminster were taking strong exception.	metaphorical	1
This was a brilliant move.	metaphorical	1
Scott was so successful in styling the building in fine brickwork with‘jazz-modern’ fluting(as John Betjeman called it) that, when the Battersea‘A’ station was opened in 1934 it was widely acclaimed as a supremely successful modern treatment of a building type that seemed quintessentially twentieth century.	metaphorical	1
When, in 1939, The Architects' Journal conducted a survey to find what were considered the best modern buildings in Britain, Battersea was placed second— and was the favourite of such unlikely celebrities as Sir Kenneth Clark, Rebecca West and Charles Laughton.	metaphorical	1
Scott was so pleased with the style he had evolved at Battersea, a treatment that humanised industrial forms without denying their function, that he also used it on the Guinness Factory at Park Royal, west London.	metaphorical	1
At Battersea, Scott could not alter the basic design of the building and he much disliked the‘upturned table’ appearance created by the four corner chimneys.	metaphorical	1
At Bankside, however, he was able to persuade the engineers, Mott, Hay& Anderson, to gather all the flues into a single‘slender tower or campanile’.	metaphorical	1
As a result, he was able to create a symmetrical, monumental composition of great power.	metaphorical	1
As at all his power stations, Scott faced the building in a fine Worcestershire brick that has weathered to a lovely pinky-brown.	metaphorical	1
But there is nothing homely about the general effect.	metaphorical	1
Vast overlapping planes of brickwork are modelled with careful set-backs and subtle bands of detail.	literal	0
The result is an expression of the monumental aesthetic of the early twentieth century, with strong American overtones.	metaphorical	1
When the campanile is seen from a distance, it seems to belong to some strange Expressionist church one has not noticed before.	metaphorical	1
Not for nothing were such power stations described as‘brick cathedrals’; Bankside is the finest manifestation of this tradition.	metaphorical	1
Now it is redundant.	literal	0
Smoke shimmers no longer from the tall tower.	literal	0
But Bankside is nevertheless a sound structure which, like the best mills of the Industrial Revolution, is well worth preserving and is perfectly capable of adaptation for a new commercial use.	metaphorical	1
Such re-use is, of course, much encouraged by a building being listed, something which, until recently, was not possible with architecture of so recent a date.	metaphorical	1
Two years ago, however, the Department of the Environment at last began the listing of post-war buildings in England that were more than 30 years old.	metaphorical	1
Bracken House, the former home of the Financial Times, became the first candidate and English Heritage then submitted some 70 recommendations to the Department of the Environment; these included Bankside.	metaphorical	1
This, however, was too much for the Government and, using the excuse that public opinion was not yet ready to accept the protection of many unpopular modern buildings, Lord Caithness, the Minister of State for the Environment, arbitrarily whittled down English Heritage's list to 18 buildings- excluding Bankside— although it represented a more traditional approach in the Fifties to the now-unfashionable Modern Movement.	metaphorical	1
However, Caithness himself stated that this first selection was‘in no way a definitive list…	metaphorical	1
I have no doubt that others will be added.	metaphorical	1
The important thing is that the Thirty Year Rule is in force and that we can respond to developing perceptions of our times.’	metaphorical	1
Earlier this year, in my capacity as chairman of the Thirties Society, I asked Caithness's successor, Virginia Bottomley, to reconsider English Heritage's recommendation of Bankside for listing.	metaphorical	1
My argument was that, as Michael Heseltine had so boldly listed Battersea Power Station in 1980, it was illogical not to protect a much finer and more complete industrial work by the same architect.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, the listing of Battersea had ensured the building's survival for conversion to a new use— in that case, as an entertainment centre which the Prime Minister herself had praised and inaugurated.	metaphorical	1
After two months' silence, I was informed that ministers stood by their decision.	metaphorical	1
I wrote back asking the reasons for this, pointing out that, if any large modern power station deserved to be listed, it was Bankside.	metaphorical	1
I have received no satisfactory reply.	literal	0
Of course, I know perfectly well why the Department of the Environment declines to list it.	metaphorical	1
Listed building procedures might impede the full commercial realisation of the site when the electricity industry is privatised.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, British Rail has its eyes on the Bankside site for bringing up the spoil from the tunnel for Channel traffic which it is, so absurdly, driving under the middle of London at astronomical cost.	metaphorical	1
Listing, in theory, is an objective assessment of architectural or historical importance which does not necessarily prevent demolition.	metaphorical	1
In the case of Bankside Power Station, the ultimate‘temple of power’ and a masterpiece of industrial architecture by a major twentieth-century British architect, our historic building system is being perverted for purely political reasons.	metaphorical	1
MUSICALS/ Bows of Holly: Mark Steyn reviews London's latest musical biography, Buddy, at The Victoria Palace	literal	0
By MARK STEYN	literal	0
THE TEXANS drawl‘Y'all’, blacks go‘Yo’, Hispanics leer‘Hey, ameeeeeeeego!’.	literal	0
And towering above these stage cliches is, of course, the driven genius whose music can not be stemmed by the forces of reaction.	metaphorical	1
Who is it this time?	metaphorical	1
Wagner, Glenn Miller, Jason Donovan?	literal	0
No matter; only the accents change— and the pants: here, the squares wear slacks, the good guys blue-jeans.	metaphorical	1
Warned not to sing rock'n'roll on a c&w station, Buddy Holly insists,‘I got ta play ma music.’	metaphorical	1
Misunderstood by Decca Records, he maintains,‘I wan na play ma music ma way.’	metaphorical	1
Even when the hits start, he's not content.	metaphorical	1
‘We got ta take our music more serious,’ he tells the Crickets, who remain unconvinced.	metaphorical	1
‘You got money, you got fame,’ he pleads,‘what you want to booze for?’	metaphorical	1
Booze?	literal	0
We're midway through Act II and a solitary six-pack has yet to hove into view.	metaphorical	1
But this is a plot development— the plot development— and, if it involves turning a couple of Aled Jones types into Oliver Reed s, why let logic get in the way?	metaphorical	1
As it happens, there is a kind of logic behind Buddy.	metaphorical	1
The most common reason for a biomusical is opportunism: take a star like Judy Garland or John Lennon, and you pick up a hit title and a hit score ready-made.	metaphorical	1
Now, Alan Janes's play matches the well-loved songs with equally well-loved dialogue in a K-Tel Golden Greats collection of Dramatists' Reliables.	metaphorical	1
Choke up at The Price Of Fame:‘I give‘em everything and they stick a knife in my back.’	metaphorical	1
Fight back those tears at The Inevitable Parting:‘You and me, boy, I reckon we've come to the end of our road.’	metaphorical	1
Marvel at The Little Woman Behind The Man:‘I'd like to sing a song fer a special girlfriend who's kinda important to me.’	metaphorical	1
The justification for this is authenticity.	metaphorical	1
‘All that happens in the play is based on fact,’ Janes pledges solemnly in the programme notes.	metaphorical	1
‘As we know, truth is often stranger than fiction.’	literal	0
Often?	literal	0
Most of us prefer to watch Dallas than our neighbours' home-movies, because, when it comes down to it, we know that truth is generally a lot duller than fiction.	metaphorical	1
Occasionally, though, a dramatist will uncover someone with an interesting story, regardless of how unknown or vaguely remembered the subject is.	metaphorical	1
How many of us can now recall the real Maria von Trapp or Fanny Brice?	metaphorical	1
They live only through The Sound Of Music and Funny Girl.	metaphorical	1
Buddy Holly comes somewhere between the subjects of those and more parasitic biographies.	metaphorical	1
His records are still played, but his personality, un exposed through movies or extensive TV interviews, is almost entirely unknown.	metaphorical	1
It is, in theory, the best of both worlds— except that Buddy Holly, by all accounts, was not terribly interesting.	metaphorical	1
He was born in Lubbock, married a nice Spanish girl and died young in a‘plane crash in 1959.	metaphorical	1
All that counts are the records, a rhythmically unusual Tex-Mex fusion of rock'n'roll and older western elements, pioneering what became the standard pop instrumentation of two guitars, bass and drums.	metaphorical	1
The lyrics are another matter.	literal	0
Of the two prototype rock songwriters, it's the more worldly Chuck Berry you turn to for the authentic picture of teenage pleasures in Eisenhower's America:‘Gon na write a little letter, Gon na mail it to my local deejay.’	metaphorical	1
Or:‘Cruising and playing the radio With no particular place to go.’	metaphorical	1
Berry's songs are plausible emblems of rock'n'roll rebellion or, at any rate, youthful hedonism.	metaphorical	1
Buddy invites us to regard Holly in the same light, mocking(in a horribly nudging re-creation) Lubbock old-timers like The Hayriders, who sing:‘When the sun goes down on Blue Ridge Mountain It's the time to whistle in your ear.’	metaphorical	1
At least, this has a surreal daftness.	metaphorical	1
The voice of rock'n'roll, in contrast, is almost unrelievedly soupy.	metaphorical	1
If you did n't know the tunes, you'd assume Holly's lyrics decorated some innocent backporch spooners from the turn-of-the-century:‘Stars appear and the shadows are fallin' You can hear my honey callin'.’	metaphorical	1
Or:‘You give me all your lovin' And your turtle-dovin'.’	metaphorical	1
Or:‘When Cupid shot his dart He shot it at your heart.’	metaphorical	1
Not only are these songs impossible to use dramatically, they're also too vague to use as incidental music, to underline or punctuate aspects of Holly's life or the 1950s more generally.	metaphorical	1
‘I wrote it for you,’ he assures his gal before the ballads, but how can you tell?	metaphorical	1
All you can do with these songs is sing them, and Buddy fails even to manage that with any subtlety.	metaphorical	1
The finales to both Acts are effectively concerts, the sort of agreeably naff rock'n'roll revival that might just about pass muster as a Capital Gold one-nighter down the Hammersmith Palais.	metaphorical	1
And, for all the appeal of his singing and playing, Paul Hipp comes out pretty dull between the numbers.	metaphorical	1
To camouflage the failures of the play, Andy Walmsley has created a set which resembles a pile-up of roadside hoardings: Oldsmobile, Van Heusen shirts, Texaco Premium Type.	metaphorical	1
Rob Bettinson, the director, has deduced that he ought to have these images plus disc-jockeys, radio commercials, midwestern hops, but he does n't seem to know why.	metaphorical	1
Like most shows which are manufactured with an eye to commercial success(Winnie, High Society, to name only Buddy's predecessors at the Victoria Palace), this one will probably fail.	metaphorical	1
It's not as if there are n't aspects of his career that are n't worth exploring: how did he come to use drums, then almost unknown in Texan country line-ups?	metaphorical	1
Was it true, as the chart performance of‘Heartbeat’(his last release) suggests, that his three-year career was already on the wane?	metaphorical	1
And surely any dramatist ought to be able to move us with that final night of Holly's life, when his musicians(including Waylon Jennings) gave their places on the‘plane to the Big Bopper and Ritchie Valens.	metaphorical	1
The author's job is not merely to offer an illustrated Who's Who entry, but to turn elements of a man's life into a dramatic entity.	metaphorical	1
And, if Holly's too boring for that, perhaps the best approach would be to write about his impact on others.	metaphorical	1
That, after all, is what Don McLean did so brilliantly in‘American Pie’, a personal reaction to‘the day the music died’.	metaphorical	1
‘HER DRESS HANGS HERE': DE-FROCKING THE KAHLO CULT	metaphorical	1
Oriana Baddeley	literal	0
The 1990s have witnessed a shift in the art establishment's attitudes towards art produced outside of its traditional parameters.	metaphorical	1
The work of previously marginalised artists has become an area of rich speculation among art dealers priced out of the‘modern masters’ market.	metaphorical	1
Almost every year has witnessed the discovery of new artistic terrain— graffiti art, Soviet art, Australian art, the art of Latin America.	metaphorical	1
The major auction houses have moved with the times and have found new ways of selling works which in both form and content would have proved an unstable investment a decade ago.	metaphorical	1
The current status of the work of the Mexican painter Frida Kahlo is a dramatic example of this change.	metaphorical	1
Once known primarily as the wife of Diego Rivera, her reputation outside of Mexico now far supercedes his: since 1919, sale room estimates of her work have risen from$40,000 to over$1 million, and in 1990 a work by Kahlo broke all records at Sotheby's New York for a Latin American artist.	metaphorical	1
The enormous rise in the economic value of her work has developed in tandem with the increased critical and popular response to her particular blend of naive style and incisive content.	metaphorical	1
While the first wave of popular interest arose with the 1982 Whitechapel exhibition instigated by Laura Mulvey and Peter Wollen, it was the publication of Hayden Herrera's biography of Kahlo in 1983 which has led to her current cult status.	metaphorical	1
Since that date she has been the subject of TV documentaries, a feature film(‘Frida’ by Paul Leduc), a stage play, numerous publications and the inspiration for designer clothing.	metaphorical	1
In May 1989 Elle magazine ran a 16 page feature on Frida Kahlo as the‘spirit of Mexico’(Fig. 1), while in Vogue(Feb. 1990) there was a 10 page interpretation of‘the romance of Frida Kahlo's Mexico’(Fig. 2).	metaphorical	1
Almost as a logical outcome of this media blitz, it emerged in the summer of 1990 that Madonna, already a devotee of Kahlo's work, was commissioning a screenplay based on Kahlo's life. 	metaphorical	1
Fig. 1.	literal	0
Elle Magazine, May 1989, p. 18–19.	literal	0
As with most artists who have become mythical personalities in the popular imagination, such attention has focused primarily on the anecdotal and tragic details of Kahlo's admittedly fascinating life.	metaphorical	1
The passionate obsession with her husband Diego Rivera, her flamboyant appearance, but most of all her physical and emotional pain have come to dominate responses to her work.	metaphorical	1
While Kahlo's art helped her to deal with the vicissitudes of her life, for most audiences it is her life story which allows access to her art.	metaphorical	1
In this one can draw obvious parallels to the appeal of Van Gogh, a traditionally popular artist recently made fashionable by the media attention generated during the centennial of his death.	metaphorical	1
The archetypal dropout/spiritualist became an appropriate icon for the sixties revival of 1990' s long hot summer.	metaphorical	1
Yet despite the iconic status of Van Gogh's‘tragic’ life, it is the appearance of his work by which he is ultimately signified, his thick impasto brush-stroke, his vibrant yellows, the urgency of his creative drive.	metaphorical	1
In the case of Kahlo the popular image is of the artist herself, the characteristic brows, the elaborate hair, the Mexican costume(Fig. 3).	metaphorical	1
It is primarily her appearance, not the formal language of her art, that has graced the pages of Elle and Vogue magazines.	metaphorical	1
The Elle feature transposed the‘Kahlo style’ to Kahlo lookalikes in contemporary clothing balanced around segments of Herrera's biography of  the artist.	metaphorical	1
In the later Vogue piece only the style remained as the far more overtly sexual, Kahloesque models lounged and pouted in their‘Mexican’ interiors.	metaphorical	1
There is a poignant irony in the way clothing, which on one level served to hide Kahlo's broken body, falls or is lifted by the model to reveal a luxuriantly perfect physique(Fig. 4).	metaphorical	1
The visual references in the two magazines are as much from photos of the artist as from her work.	metaphorical	1
In both features she is also seen to embody a wider set of assumptions about Mexico itself; exotic, passionate, yet constantly struggling against pain and deceit.	metaphorical	1
While Elle, Vogue and subsequently The Independent(Fig. 5), stressed different facets of Kahlo's public persona, they all shared the emphasis on‘her’, as an encapsulisation of stereotypical images of Mexico, rather than her work.	metaphorical	1
It is her body as the canvas, her appearance as art.	metaphorical	1
The art of self-expression becomes self-expression as art.	literal	0
Fig. 2.	literal	0
Vogue, February 1990, p. 130–1.	literal	0
Fig. 3.	literal	0
Elle Magazine, May 1989, p. 28.	literal	0
Of course, the line between art and life is a particularly hard one to draw in Kahlo's case.	metaphorical	1
The majority of her work is self portraiture; her aesthetic concerns grew from her fascination with the falsity of appearance.	metaphorical	1
Dressing up, role playing and masquerade form the conceptual basis of Kahlo's work.	literal	0
In Self-Portrait with Cropped Hair(1944)(Fig. 6), she paints herself wearing Rivera's suit, challenging traditional expectations of femininity and attempting to appropriate his authority(while simultaneously) threatening castration).	metaphorical	1
More disturbingly, in The Mask(1945)(Fig. 7), she throws doubt on too straightforward a reading of her self-portraits as revealing of her inner emotions.	metaphorical	1
Where does the mask fall: Does not the ritual repetition of those familiar features‘mask’ far more than it uncovers?	metaphorical	1
There is, however, an inevitable logic to the appropriation of her meticulously constructed image, a process which the artist was mocking as early as 1933:‘… some of the gringa women are imitating me and trying to dress‘a la Mexicana’, but the poor souls only look like cabbages and to tell you the naked truth they look absolutely impossible.'	metaphorical	1
The‘impossibility’ stemmed from the failure of such followers to recognise the symbolic importance of Kahlo's choice of clothing, a failure also intrinsic to her recent magazine appearances.	metaphorical	1
The particularities of post-revolutionary Mexico are frequently subsumed by the decorativeness of the ethnic, by the generalised attractiveness of the radical avant-garde.	metaphorical	1
For Kahlo, however, choosing to don the costume of the Tehuana, as for example in Tree of Hope(1946)(Fig. 8), was to embody a powerful icon of cultural identity.	metaphorical	1
Mexican Indian dress is extraordinarily diverse and by and large geographically specific, varying from region to  region.	metaphorical	1
The Tehuana dress is by no means the most decorative variant or the closest to pre-Hispanic forms of clothing.	metaphorical	1
It is the mythology surrounding the women wearers of the costume which directed Kahlo's choice.	metaphorical	1
The ostensibly matriarchal society of Tehuantepec led to the adoption of the Tehuana, in post-revolutionary Mexico, as the image of the strong Indian woman; the undefeated counterpart to the despised‘Chingada’, who, conversely is the female embodiment of Mexico's hybrid post-conquest culture.	metaphorical	1
In a culture where sexual metaphors are frequently used to convey racial and political conflict, the Tehuana represents that aspect of Mexico's indigenous tradition unbowed by centuries of colonial and male rule.	metaphorical	1
Kahlo's adoption of Tehuana dress, while being an attractive disguise of what she saw as a less than perfect body, asserted both a feminist and an anti-colonialist position.	metaphorical	1
Fig. 4.	literal	0
Vogue, February 1990, p. 138.	literal	0
Fig. 5.	literal	0
The Independent on Sunday, 8th April 1990, p. 37.	literal	0
In Kahlo's work there is a powerful mix of these discourses, yet her role as an archetypal woman painter has come to dominate responses to her work.	metaphorical	1
It is through her emergence as a cult painter of the feminist movement of the 1970s that her current reputation has evolved.	metaphorical	1
Her work almost perfectly illustrates debates as to the nature of traditional exclusions of a woman's art.	metaphorical	1
The fascination with functions of the body, the analogies between artistic  and physical creative processes, self-portraiture used to reveal the female body as the site of patriarchal aesthetic discourse; all of these mirror the concerns of many women painters of the 1980s.	metaphorical	1
Fig. 6.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: Self-portrait with cropped hair, 1940, 40x27.9 cm.	literal	0
Museum of Modern Art, New York.	literal	0
Fig. 7.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: The Mask, 1945, 40x30.5 cm.	literal	0
Coll.	literal	0
Dolores Olmeda.	literal	0
Fig. 8.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: The Tree of Hope, 1946, 55.9x40.6 cm.	literal	0
Coll.	literal	0
Isidore Ducasse Fine Arts Inc.	metaphorical	1
In their formal language, Kahlo's works are exemplary of certain feminist arguments; the adoption of the decorative, the intimate and non-fine art mediums reveals the restrictive nature of traditional definitions of‘high art’.	metaphorical	1
This‘appropriateness’ of Kahlo's aesthetic to contemporary debate has tended to remove her work from its historical context, to stress the collective and the cross-cultural.	metaphorical	1
Although this is not in itself to be dismissed as a tactic, it has diminished the complexity of Kahlo's achievement as a specifically Mexican painter, operating within the particularities of her historical moment.	metaphorical	1
More problematic is the way in which such a dislocation has led to the acceptance of her‘Mexicanness’ as mere decoration of the essentially feminist themes of her work, thereby defusing a substantial part of the art described by Breton as a‘ribbon round a bomb’.	metaphorical	1
It is the ribbon that runs through the pages of Vogue, the glossy surface of the images in direct opposition to a work such as Kahlo's The Suicide of Dorothy Hale(1939)(Fig. 9).	metaphorical	1
In this painting, a memorial to a woman's tragic death is transformed into an indictment of the culture which destroyed her.	metaphorical	1
Hale's suicide became a poignant metaphor for the oppressive nature of the social values of New York and North America in general.	metaphorical	1
The story behind Hale's death was one with which Kahlo obviously identified, and within which dress formed an important symbolic function.	metaphorical	1
Before jumping from the window of her apartment, Hale had dressed meticulously in her most flattering dress, the corsage of yellow roses a gift from a male admirer.	metaphorical	1
In Kahlo's painting, the figure falls from the fantasy world she has inhabited to the harsh bloodspattered reality of the street, literally coming down to earth.	metaphorical	1
Hale's eyes stare knowingly at the viewer, a human sacrifice to an alienated and consumerist culture.	metaphorical	1
The horizontality of her fallen body is juxtaposed to the vertical thrust of the apartment building.	metaphorical	1
She leaps from an architectural monument to a phallocentric world.	metaphorical	1
Although destroyed, she has also escaped.	literal	0
The painting, dedicated to Hale's mother, was commissioned by a mutual friend of Kahlo and Dorothy Hale, the managing editor of Vanity Fair, Clare Boothe Luce.	metaphorical	1
The painting was agreed to by Luce in part to recompense for what she saw as her misjudgment of her dead friend.	metaphorical	1
Having lent Hale money to pay her rent she had been angered to discover her spending enormous sums on an haute-couture dress, and refused to turn up to what, in retrospect, became Hale's farewell party.	metaphorical	1
Later it was revealed that the money had come from a different source.	metaphorical	1
A male friend had tried to dissuade Hale from seeking a much needed job and had given her a thousand dollars to buy‘the most beautiful dress in New York’, telling her that what she needed was to find a rich husband.	metaphorical	1
On one level this work deals with a generalised‘woman's experience’, yet the metaphorical power of Dorothy Hale's dress derives from Kahlo's use of clothing in her own self-portraits.	metaphorical	1
Dress not only covers and decorates the body but instils in the wearer its own characteristic strengths and weaknesses.	metaphorical	1
Hale's black velvet dress is cursed because it represents the values of the‘Gringolandia’ so hated by Kahlo.	metaphorical	1
In those paintings where Kahlo wears European dress she is passive, weak and unable to control her own destiny, but in the Tehuana costume she is strong, powerful, hopeful.	metaphorical	1
Unclothed, her body becomes yet more vulnerable, but as Jean Franco states:	literal	0
The unclothed body is not a‘self but a socialised body, a body that is opened by instruments, technologized, wounded, its organs displayed to the outside world.	metaphorical	1
The‘inner’ Frida is controlled by modern society far more than the clothed Frida, who often marks her deviation from the norm by defiantly returning the gaze of the viewer.	metaphorical	1
Kahlo's naked body becomes not just the tortured self of her personal biography but a visual counterpart to the injured and defiled manifestations of Mexico's colonised past: La Llorona‘the weeping woman’ of popular myth and La Chingada, the raped and abused mother described in Paz's The Labyrinth of Solitude.	metaphorical	1
Descended from an Aztec mother goddess, Llorona is a long-suffering mother figure, symbolic in a wider sense of the trauma of the  Spanish invasion.	metaphorical	1
Driven mad with grief by the loss of her child, she is thought to wander the streets weeping and crying out a ghostly memory of the pre-Conquest past.	metaphorical	1
At its most simple, La Chingada, as the mother of Mestizo culture is‘the Mother forcibly opened, violated or deceived’.	metaphorical	1
The female soil possessed and misused by the masculine force of the Spanish invaders.	metaphorical	1
The Indian Mexico raped and abused by the conquistador yet bearing his bastard child.	metaphorical	1
The rhetoric of the Tehuana opposes the nihilism of traditional feminisations of colonial trauma, and asserts the potential of a dignified cultural resistance.	metaphorical	1
Fig 9.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: The Suicide of Dorothy Hale, 1939, 58.1x47.5 cm.	literal	0
Phoenix Art Museum, Arizona.	literal	0
A major, though often ignored, work by Kahlo demonstrates the cultural politics underlying her art.	metaphorical	1
My Dress Hangs There(1939)(Fig. 10) is one of the artist’ s most formally adventurous works, mixing photographic collage with paint to produce a critique of North American culture.	metaphorical	1
Kahlo does not appear in the work, her Tehuana costume hangs empty in the centre of the composition, suspended between a toilet bowl and a golfing trophy.	metaphorical	1
On one level My Dress… is a coda to Self-Portrait on the Borderline(1932)(Fig. 11) of the previous year.	metaphorical	1
This small painting on metal, in the style of a Catholic votive image, shows the artist poised between the technological inhumanity of a capitalist North America and the archaic fertility of Mexico.	metaphorical	1
Interwoven with these images are subtler references to the metaphorical borderlines which separate Latin American culture from that of Europe and North America.	metaphorical	1
This is done by a series of juxtapositions; the past versus the present; female nature versus masculine technology; growth versus exploitation; and in its very material presence, the traditions of fine art versus the popular.	metaphorical	1
At the same time the ambivalence of her own, and modern Mexico's position is manifested in the figure of the artist.	metaphorical	1
The paper flag of her homeland is contrasted to the modernity of the cigarette held in her other hand.	metaphorical	1
The red and green of the Aztec necklace links it compositionally with the indigenous plants to the‘south’ of the painting, the pink colonial-style dress tonally blending with the skyscrapers to the‘north’.	metaphorical	1
My Dress… again suggests a conflict, but the ambivalence is gone.	metaphorical	1
 Nature has been banished, technology and its concomitant values reign over a harshly masculine world.	metaphorical	1
Three elements refer to the female presence, all of them dealing with an essential lack.	metaphorical	1
The empty dress, a peeling poster of Mae West and in the far distance the Statue of Liberty.	metaphorical	1
Fig. 10.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: My Dress Hangs There, 1933, 46x50 cm, estate of dr.	literal	0
Leo Eloesser.	literal	0
Although occasionally humorous, the work presents a bleak view of urban alienation.	metaphorical	1
The Church, Wall Street, and Industry are joined by a network of telephone lines, forming a remorsely inhuman environment.	literal	0
Beneath this man-made mechanism of oppression are the people, literally distanced from their surroundings by Kahlo's use of photo-collage.	metaphorical	1
In the forefront of this scene flutters the dress, incongruously vibrant despite its suggestion of loss.	metaphorical	1
Dislocated from its political context, it hangs like a piñata above the teeming streets of the city; decorative yet potentially explosive.	metaphorical	1
There is no place‘there’ for the values the Tehuana dress represents, its folds are given meaning by Kahlo's search for a cultural identity.	metaphorical	1
Within the confines of the painting it becomes a silent emblem of protest, a reminder of political alternatives.	metaphorical	1
The physicality so characteristic of Kahlo's work is missing, no flesh, no blood, just the tawdriness of the peeling poster and the hollow reminder of lost Liberty.	metaphorical	1
The inter-relationship of body and dress so self-consciously referred to in many of Kahlo's most polemical works(Fig. 12) has been strangely inverted by her current popularity.	metaphorical	1
Her‘Mexicanness’ has become a stylistic gloss, decorative, colourful, pretty, even individualistic.	metaphorical	1
The colonised body which Kahlo clothed in revolutionary idealism has lost its function as a symbol of nationhood becoming instead an icon of female suffering.	metaphorical	1
What is obscured by this process is that it was through clothing, in both art and life, that Kahlo attempted to redress the wrongs of history.  	metaphorical	1
Fig. 11.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: Self-Portrait on the Border, 1932, 33x45.8 cm.	literal	0
Coll.	literal	0
Mr& Mrs Manuel Reyero.	literal	0
Fig. 12.	literal	0
Frida Kahlo: The Two Fridas, 1939, 173.5x173 cm.	literal	0
Museo de Arte Moderno, Mexico D.F.	literal	0
Jackboots beneath the serge Television.	metaphorical	1
By Hugh Hebert	literal	0
THERE was one point when the hair on the back of my head began to lift.	metaphorical	1
Not at Paul Hill's remembrance of beatings past, when he could hear the sound of steel-tipped boots running to take part in the fun, and once heard a principal medical officer, no less, telling colleagues:‘Do n't walk his face, do n't walk his face.’	metaphorical	1
Not even the time he was dunked head first in a tub of dubious liquid, and brought up gasping for breath:‘Make him sing God Save the Queen!’ they shouted.	metaphorical	1
Brutality, as Hill describes and felt it, was a bitter part of his prison life; you just learnt to get down on the floor as fast as you could and cover up as best you could.	metaphorical	1
But it was Gerry Conlon's account of being interrogated after the Guildford bombings that made the scalp crawl.	metaphorical	1
We know your mother works at the Royal Victoria Hospital, they told him, we know where your sister works, and there are sectarian killings down there.	metaphorical	1
‘They told me they could arrange an‘accident’.	metaphorical	1
And I believed they were capable of murdering my mother, I honestly believe they would have murdered my mother— that's why I signed the statement.’	metaphorical	1
The account he gave just after his release was that the threat had been that a British soldier might‘accidentally’ shoot one of the women.	metaphorical	1
A few months ago even, this would have seemed improbable.	metaphorical	1
You might have assumed this was the police bluffing and bullying.	metaphorical	1
Yet given what we have learned about links between the security services and the Loyalist paramilitaries in Northern Ireland, and the deep suspicion about surrogate murders, you ca n't shrug off the shiver Conlon's words bring.	metaphorical	1
There were daunting moments in last night's First Tuesday(Yorkshire), but few of them matched that hint of a jackboot under the blue serge.	metaphorical	1
It's right that the Guildford Four have told their stories now to Grant McKee and Ros Franey and First Tuesday, the programme and the producers who dug away, and did much to keep the case alive.	metaphorical	1
And they told it without on-screen questioning, though the programme is skilfully structured to give it a coherence it might have lacked.	metaphorical	1
Carole Richardson's is the most haunting face.	literal	0
You have to hope that its blankness will slowly dissolve and let life in.	metaphorical	1
Just once a couple of tears rolled down.	literal	0
It was when she described seeing film of the results of the bombing on television, and thinking:‘They think I did that!’	metaphorical	1
Armstrong seems the least permanently damaged on the surface.	metaphorical	1
He pays tribute to his treatment at Gartree prison, he apologises to the bomb victims' families that they have had to keep reminding them of their loss:‘But we had to fight for our freedom.’	metaphorical	1
Hill expresses the way time has cheated them: his daughter was born while he was remanded in custody, and is now 14:‘She would change dramatically and I did n't feel a change in myself mentally.	metaphorical	1
I'm still 20 in my head.	metaphorical	1
Nothing's happened to me.	metaphorical	1
I have n't lived.’	literal	0
But again it was Conlon, the slightly wild-eyed Irish poet of the quartet, articulate, flamboyant— remember that extraordinary exit through the front door of the Old Bailey— who cut deep into the collective conscience.	metaphorical	1
He described being taken over the years to see his sick, and finally dying and almost certainly innocent father in another prison.	metaphorical	1
He was convicted with the Maguires in the parallel case of a‘bomb factory’.	metaphorical	1
And he tells how none of the assembled guards and officials could look his father in the eye as he protested his innocence.	metaphorical	1
Only the nurses could do that.	metaphorical	1
And at the end, Conlon drew the one hopeful conclusion:‘If this stops capital punishment ever coming back, the time I've spent in prison will be well worth it.	metaphorical	1
If this stops another innocent person going to prison, it'll be well worth it…	metaphorical	1
‘I've had numerous prison governors say to me, Yes, Conlon, we know you're innocent, but there's nothing we can do about it.	metaphorical	1
We get a custody order, and that's it.	metaphorical	1
What sort of system of justice is that?’	metaphorical	1
IT was n't the only programme last night to shine light into dirty corners.	metaphorical	1
Inside The Brotherhood(Granada), produced by Claudia Milne and Martin Short, dug into the most notorious area of Masonic influence, local government.	metaphorical	1
In Southend, where 3,000 of the 50,000 adult males are reckoned to be Masons, it went into the case of what you might call Preferential Allocation of Council Property, and the battle of one councillor, Christopher Hudson, to break the grip of the men on the Square:‘We ca n't have a secret society operating within the framework of a democracy,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
‘It's a paradox, it's a nonsense.’	literal	0
Though over the years, from Southend to Tyneside and the Government's own Property Services Agency, there's all too much evidence that this is exactly what we do have.	metaphorical	1
The US sets its compass on two trading oceans Notebook.	metaphorical	1
By Edited by Alex Brummer	literal	0
CANBERRA may seem an awful long way from exchanges on the floor of the House of Commons over the European Monetary System.	metaphorical	1
But were it not for the perceived economic might of a more unified Economic Community, the dozen or so nations of the Pacific Rim, who have been meeting in Australia, might not have bothered.	metaphorical	1
The first, albeit tenative, steps towards forming a new Pacific-based economic union display an astute awareness of the way events are moving within Europe: movements with which Number 10 has yet to come to grips.	metaphorical	1
Not so long ago it seemed as if the world was to divide into three main trading blocks: the EC based around the West German economy; a Northern American block based around the US-Canadian free trade area, and a Pacific unit incorporating the Asian tigers with Japan and the yen at the centre.	metaphorical	1
But the Metternich-like skills of the US Secretary of State, Mr James Baker, are ensuring that America maintains a strong stake in each forum.	metaphorical	1
It firstly boldly asked for a seat at the top table at the European Community: a suggestion rudely rebuffed.	metaphorical	1
The US has talked of a genuine North American free trade zone incorporating the US, Canada and Mexico which would have the best of all worlds with high-technology skills and a cheap labour force south of the Rio Grande.	metaphorical	1
Now it is making a third bid for influence.	metaphorical	1
It has turned up in Canberra with Japan to develop Asia Pacific Economic Co-operation(APEC) and a new 12-nation organisation which will mimic the role of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Europe.	metaphorical	1
Preliminary steps taken to conduct studies on trade, technology and investment flows in the region may seem insignificant.	metaphorical	1
But Mr Baker plainly views it as otherwise.	metaphorical	1
He noted that the Canberra meeting‘is the start of something which could grow into a very significant development not only for the region but for the global economy.’	metaphorical	1
If the more economically puny ASEAN countries(Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Thailand and the Philippines) were to bury their reservations, then the high growth from other partners, including such tigers as Thailand and South Korea alongside the more mature economies of Japan and Australia, could mean a dynamic coalition.	metaphorical	1
It would then be up to the US and Canada to decide whether they want to face towards the Atlantic or Pacific— or be caught between two great trading oceans.	metaphorical	1
Heading for default.	metaphorical	1
THE QUESTION of just who would even want to be a partner with the US was underlined last night as the American Administration headed for default for the first time in its history.	metaphorical	1
Congress was frantically trying to complete a bill raising the federal debt ceiling in time for President Bush to sign today.	metaphorical	1
Leaders on Capitol Hill virtually put all other business on hold as it sought to hammer out a debt ceiling increase.	metaphorical	1
The Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, a level headed figure, warned that the imbroglio may lead to higher interest costs for the taxpayer.	metaphorical	1
What should have been a routine exercise in extending the Government's borrowing power to$3.1 thousand billion became bogged down in wrangling over legislative initiatives lawmakers wanted to attach to the bill.	metaphorical	1
As a result of the stalemate, the Treasury has been forced to postpone$40billion in debt auctions this week.	metaphorical	1
Lack of congressional action also forced the Treasury to suspend new sales of US savings bonds and of special securities for state and local governments.	metaphorical	1
This market sensitive dispute has taken place as President Bush and Congress continued to spar on a primary cause for government borrowing— the budget deficit.	metaphorical	1
At a press conference to mark his election victory a year ago, Mr Bush threatened to veto the budget unless it contained real cuts.	metaphorical	1
Otherwise Congress would have to face the consequences of automatic across-the-board cuts under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget deficit reduction law.	metaphorical	1
America may have changed Presidents a year ago, but the fiscal thicket remains as inpenetrable as ever.	metaphorical	1
Political expediency.	literal	0
NO LONGER can the Government disguise the crisis surrounding electricity privatisation.	metaphorical	1
Ministers have already had to pull Britain's fleet of Magnox reactors out of the float and delay the sell-off date by up to six months.	metaphorical	1
But it has now become clear that further drastic amendments are needed to flotation plans.	metaphorical	1
After months of turning deaf ears to warnings by the City and industry, the Department of Energy has at last conceded that nuclear plant can not be included in the share float without state support.	metaphorical	1
This leaves the Energy Secretary, Mr John Wakeham, with two options: he can either agree to underwrite any cost escalations in nuclear handling costs after privatisation, or he can swallow his pride, and pull all nuclear plant out of the impending sale.	metaphorical	1
Whatever the outcome, the Government's willingness to continue pushing through the float during this Parliament shows how ministers are prepared to put political expediency before the interests of the industry.	metaphorical	1
For the nuclear element in electricity privatisation is the coping stone on which the flotation plans are based.	metaphorical	1
National Power was given 70 per cent of the CEGB's generating capacity in order to give it an economic mix of power.	metaphorical	1
The other 30 per cent is to be operated by PowerGen, the other CEGB successor company.	metaphorical	1
Take away or subsidise all nuclear power stations and you lose the commercial logic of the privatisation plans.	metaphorical	1
Electricity privatisation needs to go back to the drawing board.	metaphorical	1
At the very least, the CEGB should be divided into a wider range of generating companies to stimulate competition.	metaphorical	1
Is it worth sacrificing the long-term future of Britain's biggest state owned industry to make political capital in the run-up to the next election?	metaphorical	1
22COMMENT THE GUARDIANWednesday November 8 1989 More than just another disaster.	literal	0
THIRTY FIVE people died and others were maimed for life in the Clapham rail disaster in December last year because work was done in a slovenly, haphazard way and was then left unchecked.	metaphorical	1
The disaster was all the more stunning because people had come to assume that such things did n't happen.	metaphorical	1
In most years, rail deaths are few: in some there are none at all.	metaphorical	1
Clapham, indeed, accounts for nearly half the 77 fatalities of the last ten years: compare that with the 5,000 deaths and 300,000 injuries every year on the roads.	metaphorical	1
Yet yesterday's report on the Clapham crash, confirming the picture which emerged throughout the Hidden inquiry, makes an event which seemed at the time totally unexpected look almost inevitable.	metaphorical	1
This was a system hopelessly under strain.	metaphorical	1
Under strain for a start because it was technically ill-equipped to avert disaster or to cope with the consequences when disaster struck; under strain from commercial pressures which, as the inquiry puts it,‘compromised’ safety; under strain above all because the people on the spot could n't or would n't cope, were weary from gruesome working hours(the senior signal technician who heads the list of the culpable had had only one day off in the past 13 weeks), lacked adequate training, or simply could n't be bothered.	metaphorical	1
The bulk of the blame for all that is placed on British Rail, which knowingly permitted these things to continue.	metaphorical	1
Though individuals are nailed, the greatest villain of all is the system.	metaphorical	1
In a desperately competitive climate, where anyone bright and competent could go down the road and pick up a better paid job with kinder hours and more congenial working conditions from someone like British Telecom, the railways ran a service dependent on people who belonged to a narrow and inbred working culture, with outdated procedures of training and promotion, and an institutional reliance on overtime working, whose wholly disgraceful dimensions are symbolised by the fact that maximum weekly hours were only recently cut to 72 hours a week.	metaphorical	1
The Transport Secretary, Mr Cecil Parkinson, assured the Commons yesterday that financial considerations would not stand in the way of implementing Sir Anthony Hidden's 93 recommendations.	metaphorical	1
On the technical side, remedial work is in many cases already on the way.	metaphorical	1
But the job of lifting the standards of people employed, giving them proper training, and paying a wage which breaks dependence on overtime and lifts morale: this together must far exceed the costs of the technology, and it is n't by any means clear what the bill will be or where the money will come from.	metaphorical	1
All of which is not just a problem for a properly penitent British Rail: it's a problem for government too.	metaphorical	1
Government fixes the format in which BR has to work; and if, as the Hidden report attests, many of its problems today reflect lack of past planning, lack of farsighted investment, living from hand to mouth, then that is not just BR's doing.	metaphorical	1
Government compounds all these problems when it sets down working parameters which fail to reflect the value the country gets from a system that is run efficiently, can shift people to destinations with exemplary speed and safety— as Europe consistently demonstrates.	metaphorical	1
It is sad, and somewhat ominous, that so little of that should have been reflected in the sombre statement which Mr Parkinson made in the House yesterday..	metaphorical	1
A service in chaos.	metaphorical	1
THE nation's ambulance service was in manifest chaos yesterday.	metaphorical	1
There was no service in London, with all 71 stations and 455 vehicles off the road.	metaphorical	1
The only accident and emergency relief was provided by the police, part-time St John ambulance volunteers running 20 vehicles, and the Red Cross.	metaphorical	1
Outside the capital, accident and emergency services were being provided in most areas, but the ban on emergency work was tightened.	metaphorical	1
The service was facing its biggest crisis since the ambulances came to a stop in the Winter of Discontent ten years ago.	metaphorical	1
Like Labour in 1979, the Conservatives have put military ambulances on standby.	metaphorical	1
They move in today.	literal	0
What has gone wrong?	metaphorical	1
There are three key causes of the shambles: Mr Kenneth Clarke; the failure to separate emergency from non-emergency work; and the Whitley Council negotiating machinery.	metaphorical	1
The Health Secretary accused the unions of‘posturing and pretending’ to run a 999 service yesterday.	metaphorical	1
He was right.	literal	0
By refusing to keep open two-way radio links, the crews had effectively ended a proper emergency service.	metaphorical	1
The move was signalled last week and, true to their promised response, management suspended the workers involved in the disruption.	metaphorical	1
But‘posturing and pretending’ went far beyond the unions.	metaphorical	1
Mr Clarke has been indulging in just that himself, putting up the luckless Duncan Nichol, chief executive of the health service, to take the initial flak under the pretence that the dispute is not his direct responsibility.	metaphorical	1
Yet it was Mr Clarke, not Mr Nichol, who was involved in the critical decisions— the cash limit for the NHS, the 6.5 per cent offer to ambulance workers(compared to seven per cent for nurses, eight per cent for doctors and nine per cent for ancillary workers); and today's introduction of military ambulances.	metaphorical	1
Ambulance workers on emergency work do deserve a much higher increase.	metaphorical	1
They have progressed far beyond routine first aid.	metaphorical	1
Their paramedical skills cover highly technical procedures: intubation, infusion and defebrillation.	metaphorical	1
The crews are able to resuscitate heart attack patients, replace fluid intraveneously after severe blood loss, and insert tubes to maintain air supplies in unconconscious casualties.	metaphorical	1
Yet the ambulance worker is only being offered£10,000, when a fire officer is being given£13,000 and a Metropolitan police constable can earn£25,000.	literal	0
But only two million out of the 20 million journeys which ambulance crews carry out each year are emergency calls.	metaphorical	1
Nine out of 10 are routine calls, many of which could be carried out by mini cabs.	metaphorical	1
Mr Duncan Nichol wants to separate the emergency from the non-emergency work.	metaphorical	1
He is right to pursue this line.	metaphorical	1
Wiltshire and Northumbria have already shown how much can be achieved.	metaphorical	1
The ramshackle Whitley Council negotiating machinery is the other reason why the ambulance workers have lost out.	metaphorical	1
Until this year, the three independent review bodies which make recommendations for nurses, doctors and the professions allied to medicine have given much higher awards than the Whitley Councils.	metaphorical	1
As Lord McCarthy noted some 13 years ago, the management side of the councils comprise‘employers who do not pay and paymasters who do not employ.’	metaphorical	1
A much more flexible system which would allow local managers to negotiate local rates— on a national pay spine— is needed.	metaphorical	1
A crisis; an agenda for reform and honesty.	metaphorical	1
One Mr Clarke can not duck away from if he wants to avoid a second Winter of Discontent..	metaphorical	1
Opening, closing.	metaphorical	1
PRINCE CHARLES is jolly good at opening things.	metaphorical	1
He needs to be for the next four days in Hong Kong, because he will be hard at work cutting ribbons and laying foundation stones.	metaphorical	1
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, the Hong Kong Island Divisional Headquarters of the Red Cross, the new Cultural Centre, and many more.	metaphorical	1
He is even re-opening the already opened Eastern Harbour tunnel and subway crossing.	metaphorical	1
It is all standard royal stuff, but not much help to the millions who fear that Hong Kong will not remain open after 1997.	metaphorical	1
The whole point of a visit to Hong Kong now, five months after Tiananmen Square, should be to declare with royal authority that Britain shares the concerns of the Hong Kong people and is determined to do something about them.	metaphorical	1
There was already a rather perfunctory air to the Queen's visit three years ago, as if it were just a required coda to her tour of China.	metaphorical	1
When the Prince and Princess of Wales quite rightly scrapped their tour of the mainland, they had the opportunity to make a contrasting point in Hong Kong.	metaphorical	1
Unless they can say something relevant in the next four days, the many Hong Kong critics who believe the visit is a waste of dollars will be absolutely right.	metaphorical	1
It did not help at all that upon arrival yesterday the royal couple instantly touched base in that comforting symbol of past British power, the Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank.	metaphorical	1
If there is a failure of imagination to use the royal visit creatively it will also be a failure of nerve.	metaphorical	1
Britain still can not decide when to play the mandarinate game of silence with the Chinese and when to break the rules(as Beijing does all the time.)	metaphorical	1
The ideal tactics should be a mixture of both, but only if a clear message can be communicated to the Hong Kong people that someone is standing up for them somewhere.	metaphorical	1
Instead the latest developments in Sino-British relations have left them even more confused than before.	metaphorical	1
China claims that the Hong Kong Government recently gave a written commitment to limit the activities of the pro-democracy movement in the territory.	metaphorical	1
The government denies this, but has published the text of a letter from its Political Adviser to the New China News Agency(Beijing's embassy in Hong Kong) suggesting that it did.	metaphorical	1
In a tone of meek appeasement, the letter draws attention to the arrest by Hong Kong police of anti-China demonstrators outside the agency's National Day reception.	metaphorical	1
It also reminds Beijing that permission has been refused for local protesters to erect a replica Statue of Democracy on a permanent site.	metaphorical	1
It ends by assuring Beijing that the Hong Kong Government will have‘a prudent regard for the special circumstances of Hong Kong and the interests and concerns of the Chinese Government.’	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile the flood of letters of a very different sort from anxious Hong Kong citizens to this and every other newspaper office continues.	metaphorical	1
So do the Chinese press statements asserting that Hong Kong is‘entirely a business between China and Britain’ and should not be discussed, formally or informally, at any international forum.	metaphorical	1
The only two Hong Kong legislators who consistently dare to speak out, Mr Martin Lee and Mr Szeto Wah, have been threatened with expulsion from the committee now drafting China's post-1997 Basic Law.	metaphorical	1
Our latest Foreign Secretary has yet to publicly pick up the file marked Hong Kong.	literal	0
There is still endless dithering on how broad a‘safety net’ Britain will extend to its citizens.	metaphorical	1
They may rightly feel that it is all really rather appalling.	metaphorical	1
Letters to the Editor	metaphorical	1
Law Report.	literal	0
Parliament urged to think again on housing issue:.	metaphorical	1
Queen's Bench Divisional Court Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council v Bujok Before Lord Justice Watkins and Mr Justice Hutchison November 2 1989	literal	0
IF a dwelling house is in such a state of disrepair as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance, the tenant may lay an information against his landlord alleging the existence of a statutory nuisance under the Public Health Act 1936.	metaphorical	1
The tenant is not obliged to ensure that the landlord is aware of the defects in the premises or to give the landlord an opportunity to remedy the defects before commencing legal proceedings.	metaphorical	1
Although that is the position in law, the court emphasised that as a matter of common sense a tenant should first complain to the landlord before exercising the right to prosecute.	metaphorical	1
The facts.	literal	0
Mrs Bujok and her family occupied a house as council tenants.	literal	0
In September 1988 Mrs Bujok laid an information against the council alleging the existence and continuance of a statutory nuisance under section 92(1) of the Public Health Act 1936.	metaphorical	1
It was alleged that the council, being the owners of the premises, were the persons by whose act, default or sufferance the nuisance arose.	metaphorical	1
Prior to laying the information Mrs Bujok had not served an abatement notice upon the council or informed them of the alleged defects in the premises.	metaphorical	1
The justices held Mrs Bujok was not required to ensure that the council were aware of the defective state of the property prior to laying the information.	metaphorical	1
The council appealed by case stated.	metaphorical	1
The legislation.	literal	0
Section 92(1) of the 1936 Act defines‘statutory nuisances’ as‘any premises in such a state as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance’.	metaphorical	1
The decision.	literal	0
Mr Justice Hutchison said the 1936 Act primarily envisages a system where the local authority has a power and a duty to try to secure that premises are not in a state which constitutes a statutory nuisance.	metaphorical	1
Action is initiated by the service of an abatement notice requiring remedial work.	metaphorical	1
If the person in default fails to comply with an abatement notice the local authority is obliged to make a complaint to the magistrates.	metaphorical	1
If the complaint is proved, a nuisance order is made requiring the defendant to get the necessary work done.	metaphorical	1
Effectively the sequence is that the person in default is told what is wrong and is required to put it right.	metaphorical	1
He is given an opportunity to do so, and if he does not, he is subject to sanctions by the court to compel him to do so.	metaphorical	1
The problem arises in connection with section 99 which adapts or applies the provisions to cases where an individual rather than the local authority wishes to make the complaint.	metaphorical	1
Need he serve an abatement notice?	metaphorical	1
The authorities plainly establish that he need not and can not do so.	metaphorical	1
Does that mean he may lay an information and bring the matter before the magistrates without first putting the person alleged to be in default on notice of what is alleged?	metaphorical	1
The council argued that a landlord, particularly one such as a local authority, can not realistically be expected to have a system of inspection of all its premises and in practice is entitled to depend upon notification by its tenants.	metaphorical	1
For Mrs Bujok it was argued that the 1936 Act was designed to secure in the interests of the community at large that statutory nuisances did not exist.	metaphorical	1
It was submitted that an owner can not turn his back on his property because when he purchases and>takes on the responsibility of letting, he knows the property will in the course of time deteriorate.	metaphorical	1
He must therefore satisfy himself on a regular basis that it does not constitute a statutory nuisance.	metaphorical	1
In Warner v Lambeth London Borough Council(1985) 15 HLR 45, 50, Lord Justice Glidewell said a private person could lay an information alleging the failure to abate a statutory nuisance without first giving notice requiring abatement.	metaphorical	1
Therefore in the present case the justices came to the correct conclusion.	metaphorical	1
His Lordship reached that decision without enthusiasm because it seemed that as a matter of common sense, notice should be given in such circumstances before criminal proceedings were launched.	metaphorical	1
Lord Justice Watkins said he agreed with reluctance.	metaphorical	1
It was surely repugnant to common sense that in this area of legal activity a local authority should be prosecuted by one of its tenants without first being given the opportunity by that tenant to remedy the consequences of a neglect to repair the dwelling that the tenant occupied.	metaphorical	1
In law there was no doubt that Mrs Bujok was entitled to commence proceedings without giving notice of the state of the dwelling to the council.	metaphorical	1
But in every other conceivable way that action was entirely wrong.	metaphorical	1
Endless trouble to many people in courts and council offices and much money could be saved by the giving of notice of disrepair.	metaphorical	1
If the council did not react to that notice, then would be the time for the tenant to exercise the right to prosecute.	metaphorical	1
Parliament should give fresh thought to enacting a provision placing an obligation upon a council tenant to give notice to the council before being permitted to commence proceedings.	metaphorical	1
Appearances: John Cherryman QC instructed by Sherwood& Co for the council; Elizabeth Norman instructed by Michael Arnold& Co, Oldbury, for Mrs Bujok.	literal	0
Shiranikha Herbert barrister	literal	0
Leinster face an uphill task.	metaphorical	1
By Robert Armstrong in Dublin	literal	0
THE ALL BLACKS begin the Irish leg of their 13-match tour at Lansdowne Road today against Leinster, who have never beaten a major touring side.	metaphorical	1
Leinster have named a team that looks strong on paper, including eight internationals, yet they recently lost to both Munster and Ulster in the Inter-Provincial Championship.	metaphorical	1
Such is the mood of pessimism here it is hard to find anyone who believes the All Blacks, having won their seven matches in Wales, will face any significant threat during the next fortnight.	metaphorical	1
Ulster, the provincial champions, may well>fancy their>chances on November 21, but Leinster look certain to face an uphill struggle even though the tourists have rested 13 of the team that beat Wales.	metaphorical	1
Leinster will be hard pushed to keep the score within the respectable margins of defeat set by their predecessors.	metaphorical	1
In 1964 the All Blacks defeated Leinster 11-5, they won 17-8 in 1972 and scraped home 8-3 in 1974.	metaphorical	1
However, during the Eighties Irish provincial rugby has assumed a Third World status in relation to New Zealand's.	metaphorical	1
Leinster have been undermined by their failure to secure prestige fixtures since the mid-Seventies.	metaphorical	1
When New Zealand last toured Ireland in 1978 Leinster were ignored.	metaphorical	1
The same thing happened in 1984 when the province was denied a fixture against the Wallabies.	metaphorical	1
Such neglect has done nothing for their confidence.	metaphorical	1
Even so, the All Blacks, who include seven capped players, will give today's opponents due respect.	metaphorical	1
As their coach, Alex Wyllie, remarked:‘When we arrived in Wales we were told Cardiff were no damned good and look how well they played against us.	metaphorical	1
Leinster are quite capable of doing the same.’	metaphorical	1
Wyllie is confident his Western Samoan wing, Va'aiga Tuigamala, will play although he is still niggled by an ankle injury received against Neath two weeks ago.	metaphorical	1
The Test flanker Alan Whetton, whose hamstring injury kept him out against Wales, will form a powerful back row with Kevin Schuler and the international No.8, Zinzan Brooke.	metaphorical	1
The tourists will field four backs aged 21 or under.	metaphorical	1
For their part, Leinster are boosted by the presence of four players already selected for Ireland to play New Zealand in Dublin on November 18.	metaphorical	1
They are Brendan Mullin, the Lions centre, Fergus Aherne, the scrum-half, and the two new caps, Nick Popplewell at loose-head and Brian Smith, the fly-half.	literal	0
No doubt Smith, the Oxford University Australian, who won five caps for the Wallabies, will feel a bit closer to home facing the All Blacks twice in the next 11 days.	metaphorical	1
It will be fascinating to see how Smith, a gifted all-round footballer, shapes up in his prospective international partnership with Aherne.	metaphorical	1
Equally intriguing will be the line-out performance of the young London Irish lock, Neil Francis, who has been left out  of the current Ireland squad.	metaphorical	1
Fortunately, Leinster's front five, which includes the experienced tight-head prop Des Fitzgerald, looks up to the task of scrummaging against the All Blacks.	metaphorical	1
However, real problems may arise once Leinster attempt to win the loose ball.	metaphorical	1
Leinster will be led by their third captain in as many matches, the centre Paul Clinch.	metaphorical	1
Leinster: F Dunlea; J Sexton, P Clinch(capt), B Mullin, P Purcell; B Smith, F Aherne; N Popplewell, N Kearney, D Fitzgerald, N Francis, B Rigney, P Kenny, K Leahy, A Blair.	metaphorical	1
All Blacks: M Ridge; J Timu, B McCahill, W Little, V Tuigamala; F Botica, B Deans; G Purvis, W Gatland, S McDowell, I Jones, G Whetton(capt), A Whetton, K Schuler, Z Brooke.	metaphorical	1
Figures of fun Open Space..	metaphorical	1
I WRITE in response to Judith Raymont(November 16) who wrote of the cartoon Men— A User's Guide,‘It is either insulting to men and should not be endorsed by publication, or it is witty and amusing, in which case we, as women, have no right to complain about equivalent portrayals of female stereotypes.’	metaphorical	1
It does not matter if the cartoon is insulting to men.	metaphorical	1
The number of such cartoons is so small that, set against the insults to women broadcast by every newsagent and television channel, only a loony masculist would object to them.	metaphorical	1
Before Raymont works towards‘ways of showing respect, understanding and affection to members of the opposite sex’, she should realise that the opposite sex's obsession with‘members’ is a problem of enormous gravity.	metaphorical	1
There is nothing respectful, understanding or affectionate about page three.	metaphorical	1
W J Gaskill(male) East Kilbride	literal	0
IWOULD agree that male and female stereotypes portrayed in cartoons are equally abhorrent, were it not for the fact that, whilst one pokes fun at a powerful group in society(men), the other perpetuates the oppression of a powerless group(women).	metaphorical	1
In an ideal world, there would be no need for either, but for now I would rather see the frustration expressed in these light-hearted>terms than in the sort of man- hating bitterness that has given feminism such a bad name.	metaphorical	1
Natalie Ford Brighton	literal	0
MEN— A User's Guide is stupid, negative and insulting.	metaphorical	1
Am I, as a man, supposed to think that, if my body is hairy, it is‘thick and bestial’?	literal	0
Or that my mind, which I consider intelligent and creative, is occupied only with sex, violence and car engines?	metaphorical	1
Is this funny?	metaphorical	1
What kind of hypocrisy allows you to(presumably) condemn a similarly degrading portrayal of women, whilst making your page a forum for this cartoon?	metaphorical	1
Jim Conwell London NW3	literal	0
PAGE wom	literal	0
Soccer: Littlewoods Cup, fourth round: Oldham Athletic 3, Arsenal 1 Double by Ritchie ends 66-year wait.	metaphorical	1
By Stephen Bierley	literal	0
OLDHAM Athletic, who had never beaten a First Division side since they dropped into the Second Division in 1923, made up for 66 years of not altogether patient waiting with a pulsating victory over the League champions Arsenal at Boundary Park last night.	metaphorical	1
The Pennines fairly shook.	metaphorical	1
No supporter of the Latics dared dream it, but suddenly the improbable was a throbbing, joyous reality.	metaphorical	1
Two goals from the irrepressible Andy Ritchie, his 13th and 14th this season, and a third by the 20-year-old midfield player Nick Henry, and Arsenal were sunk with only the trace of a last-minute goal by Quinn.	metaphorical	1
Despite many and varied flurries of activity in the first 40 minutes, Arsenal seemed reasonably secure if not inspired.	metaphorical	1
They held their line and competed hard in midfield, damping down Oldham's initial verve and preparing themselves for more of the same in the second half.	metaphorical	1
Then Oldham struck.	metaphorical	1
Winterburn almost put the ball into his own net from Milligan's cross, O'Leary recovering an awkward situation.	metaphorical	1
Almost immediately Smith had an excellent chance for Arsenal but stumbled.	metaphorical	1
Oldham took up the attack again and Barlow, who had a fine match at left- back, totally containing Rocastle, floated in a deep cross beyond Winterburn.	metaphorical	1
The predatory Ritchie chested the ball down and hammered a volley past Lukic.	metaphorical	1
Arsenal had no choice but to attack as soon as the second half began.	metaphorical	1
A neat step-over by Rocastle sent Thomas hurtling in on goal but Rhodes moved sharply off his line to smother the shot.	metaphorical	1
From the resulting corner Rhodes made another fine save, hurtling to his right to deflect away Dixon's rising shot.	metaphorical	1
Finally, with Arsenal pressing hard, he clawed away Quinn's careful header from Thomas's drag-back.	metaphorical	1
Quinn held his head in disbelief.	metaphorical	1
Worse, far worse was to follow.	metaphorical	1
Bunn, who scored six goals in the previous round against Scarborough, this time turned into the provider, putting Milligan clear and free.	metaphorical	1
He was hauled back on the edge of the area by O'Leary, a‘professional’ foul for which the Arsenal central defender was booked.	literal	0
Holden's 64th-minute free-kick clattered the wall and the ball fell to Henry, who drilled a low shot from more than 30 yards inside Lukic's right-hand post.	metaphorical	1
In another 10 minutes any remaining Oldham doubts were dispelled.	metaphorical	1
Ritchie passed to Irwin and then ran on to head the cross past Lukic.	metaphorical	1
Arsenal were stitched and stuffed, with no question of a fluke.	metaphorical	1
Not for the first time this season their defence had been found wanting and Oldham exploited the weaknesses to the full, owing a special debt to the inspiration and tireless running of Henry and Milligan.	metaphorical	1
George Graham was not amused.	literal	0
He called his team's performance‘unacceptable’.	metaphorical	1
But he also said:‘Let's not take any credit away from Oldham.	metaphorical	1
They were tremendous, and outplayed us in the first half.	metaphorical	1
The plastic pitch is no excuse.	literal	0
We trained on an artificial pitch for two days this week and we should have done a lot better.’	metaphorical	1
Joe Royle, the Oldham manager, was full of praise both for Graham and his own team.	metaphorical	1
‘George was brilliant,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
‘He could have blamed this and that but he said we deserved it.	metaphorical	1
The manager's attitude shows why they are champions.	metaphorical	1
He took it on the chin.	metaphorical	1
‘One or two people will be ready to put this down to plastic but our goals were nothing to do with plastic.	metaphorical	1
This was a great performanc.	metaphorical	1
We rattled them from the first minute and did n't give them any breathing space.	metaphorical	1
We were helter-skelter for 90 minutes and we scored three great goals.	metaphorical	1
In the past we have had cup walks, not runs.’	metaphorical	1
Oldham Athletic: Rhodes; Irwin, Barlow, Henry, Barrett, Warhurst, Marshall, Ritchie, Bunn, Milligan, Holden.	literal	0
Arsenal: Lukic; Dixon, Winterburn, Thomas, O'Leary, Adams, Rocastle, Richardson, Smith, Quinn, Jonsson(Groves, 65min).	literal	0
Referee: R Gifford(Llandradach)..	literal	0
Prototyping is crucial to systems development, argues Ian Richards Tailored to fit.	metaphorical	1
IN SYSTEMS development nothing is more fundamental than assessing user requirements.	metaphorical	1
If you do n't know what the system is required to do; you do n't know anything.	metaphorical	1
But many system developers are unable to assess requirements properly.	metaphorical	1
They seem to think that you can ask a businessman what his requirements are and get an answer that amounts to a draft system specification.	metaphorical	1
A doctor does n't ask his patient what treatment to prescribe.	metaphorical	1
The patient can explain only what the problem is.	metaphorical	1
It is the doctor that provides the remedy.	metaphorical	1
If you ask a user what sort of system he wants you will be met with a blank look.	metaphorical	1
A user may have a deep knowledge of business problems, but knowing little about computers, has no idea how they should be tackled.	metaphorical	1
Yet, analysts are heard asking time and again,‘Tell me what you want.	literal	0
We've gone away from the days of systems imposed by the data processing department, this is going to be a system for the users.’	metaphorical	1
But of course the users do n't know what they want, so they end up getting another duff system.	literal	0
An effective analyst provides the same service to the business as the doctor provides to the patient.	metaphorical	1
He finds out what the needs of the business are, and prescribes the cure.	metaphorical	1
The user tells the analyst what the problems are, and the analyst decides, at least in broad terms, what the user requires.	metaphorical	1
But the analyst has one great advantage over the doctor.	metaphorical	1
Once the user becomes familiar with the proposed system, helpful comments come thick and fast.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh, this will be of great help in ordering raw materials, but sometimes we get part deliveries, could we have an extra facility to deal with those?	metaphorical	1
And sometimes non-standard discount is given, a pig to deal with on the old system, but if you could add one extra input box on that screen there…	metaphorical	1
And what about orders not delivered on time?	metaphorical	1
If we could list those we'd have advance warning of shortage problems on the assembly lines two months before they occur.	metaphorical	1
Now that would be a great leap forward.’	metaphorical	1
Unfortunately you can not reach this stage until you have developed a prototype system.	metaphorical	1
And you ca n't develop a prototype system because the users have n't got a clue what they want.	metaphorical	1
Most of them are probably muttering,‘I'm too busy to get involved in this sort of thing.	metaphorical	1
What's wrong with the old system anyway?’	metaphorical	1
The only way to develop a prototype is for the analyst to get inside the head of the user and, thinking like a user, decide what sort of system is required.	metaphorical	1
Of course, the initial system will not be perfect.	literal	0
The analyst can not hope to understand the business as well in a few weeks as the user does after many years.	metaphorical	1
But once the user sees the system, channels of communication will open.	metaphorical	1
Instead of persuading the user to specify requirements, the analyst will be driven by the user to meet key needs.	metaphorical	1
Good system development goes through two distinct phases.	metaphorical	1
Initially the analyst does all the work, leading the user towards a system he thinks is right for the business.	metaphorical	1
But once the user sees the potential of the system, a change in attitude takes place.	metaphorical	1
The process becomes demand driven by the user.	literal	0
The analyst is then forced on the defensive, explaining why new features can not be included because they are technically difficult or prohibitively expensive.	metaphorical	1
Traditionally, systems were validated by users agreeing functional specifications.	literal	0
In theory, validation meant that the user had read the specification, imagined how the system would work in practice, and agreed the design.	metaphorical	1
It was only when using a‘test’ version of the system(available just before the planned implementation date) that difficulties would come to light, and a host of change requests be issued.	metaphorical	1
The advent of fourth generation languages(4GLs) has made system development much easier.	metaphorical	1
With a 4GL an initial prototype can be put together quickly.	metaphorical	1
This means feedback is obtained early in the development process, and the system can grow around the user's requirements.	metaphorical	1
Crucial to the development process is the relationship built up between the analyst and the user.	metaphorical	1
The best systems arise when both have a deep understanding of each other's jobs.	metaphorical	1
Many developers use business analysts to ensure that the development team maintain a proper focus on business requirements.	metaphorical	1
But this can be counter-productive, as it cuts off communication between the systems analyst and the user.	metaphorical	1
Too much specialisation is bad for systems development; it feeds the temptation to get engrossed in technical difficulties and forget about the underlying business needs.	metaphorical	1
If you should stroll into a pub and meet an analyst and a user talking about work, and you can not tell one from the other, they have probably developed a successful system together.	metaphorical	1
Ian Richards' book, How to Use a Computer to Improve Your Business, has just been published by Graham& Trotman(£8.95 paperback;£16 hardback).	literal	0
Tel: 01-821 1123.	literal	0
OVERNIGHT FILE	literal	0
Tiphook confident.	metaphorical	1
Container group Tiphook yesterday said it was still confident of winning its joint£643million bid for Sea Containers even though the battle has swung towards James Sherwood's ferries-to-trailers combine.	metaphorical	1
The offer from the Anglo-Swedish consortium formed by Tiphook and Stena AB is the subject of an appeal in the Bermudan courts which is aimed at overturning an earlier ruling allowing SeaCo to proceed with its‘poison pill’ defence.	metaphorical	1
Tiphook, which yesterday unveiled a 124 per cent increase in half year profits to£10million, hopes the court will block SeaCo's purchases of its own shares.	metaphorical	1
Alternatively, it may be able to muster enough support from SeaCo shareholders to halt the current disposal of assets by Mr Sherwood for its bid with Stena to be fully considered.	metaphorical	1
The cost of the bid to Tiphook is put at£2million, which it says will have only a minor impact on full year results.	metaphorical	1
Increased demand for its road, rail and sea container fleets during the first half helped boost the latest figures.	metaphorical	1
This flowed through to earnings per share, up a half at 19.6p and shareholders receive a 25 per cent increase in the interim dividend to 2.7p.	metaphorical	1
The shares rose 9p to 443p.	metaphorical	1
Salvesen boost.	literal	0
Christian Salvesen, the food process and distribution, generator hire and brick making group, raised pre-tax profits by almost 21 per cent to£32.6million in the six months to September.	metaphorical	1
Aggreko generator hire, Salvesen's world market leader which provides power for customers from pop concerts to the oil industry, contributed strongly to a 37 per cent growth in trading profits in the industrial services division.	metaphorical	1
Oil slicks in Alaska and elsewhere helped Vikoma, the group's environmental cleaning equipment manufacturer, which specialises in separating oil from water, and although Salvesen brick, is suffering in the second half from a 30 to 40 per cent cut in demand as housebuilding nosedives, the first half was prosperous and full year trading profit should be on a level with 1988, says finance director Brian Fidler.	metaphorical	1
Almost a third of group profits are earned overseas, interest and tax charges are down on last year and gearing stands at 13 per cent.	metaphorical	1
Capital spending of£43 million should reach a total of£87 million for the full year.	metaphorical	1
The shares rose 10p to 170p.	metaphorical	1
Avon treads warily.	metaphorical	1
Shares in Avon Rubber have fallen sharply this year as a result of the weak demand for winter tyres and rights issue call to finance the move into US motor components.	metaphorical	1
The sale of most of the lossmaking tyre distribution business to Sumitomo, now also a minority shareholder in the only British-controlled tyremaker's plant, gives the board>confidence in some improvement this year, despite a poor immediate outlook for the motor producers.	metaphorical	1
Pre-tax profit fell£4.1million to£12.2 million in the year to September 30, in line with the severely- reduced expectations after the Cadillac Rubber acquisition and rights issue in July.	metaphorical	1
Turnover was held at£228.6million, an rise of about£2million, by the earlier contribution from tyre distribution and the US replacement.	metaphorical	1
The final dividend goes up to 11.5p, making 16.5p, against 14p for the year.	metaphorical	1
Earnings crashed by a third to 41p.	metaphorical	1
There was an extraordinary gain of£13.4 million, covering the Motorway Tyres disposal and more rationalisation costs.	metaphorical	1
In short…	literal	0
WHESSOE saw pre-tax profit rise to£4.78 million, from£3.55 million, on sales of£58 million down from£100 million.	metaphorical	1
Earnings were level at 17.5p a share.	metaphorical	1
Dividends total 5p, up a penny, with a 3.75p final.	metaphorical	1
BTP's enlarged specialist chemicals activities boosted turnover to£60.1million, from£44.8million, in the September half and profit rose to£9.6 million from£5.6 million, including an exceptional£3.1 million, from the Rizzi engineering sale in Italy.	metaphorical	1
Earnings without such gains were 1.9p higher at 6.8p a share.	metaphorical	1
The interim dividend is 2.75p, a rise of 10 per cent.	metaphorical	1
NORCROS, the property, building materials and printing group, saw profits crash from£29million to£18.3million.	metaphorical	1
However, the City had been expecting bad figures and the shares rose 15p to 239p.	metaphorical	1
HARDANGER, the retail property developer, posted pre-tax profits up£1.3million to£8.37million.	metaphorical	1
The final dividend is 26.5p, making a total of 37.5p, against 30p.	metaphorical	1
CRYSTALATE, the electronics product group, experienced a‘serious disappointment’ in the second half and hence profits fell from£5.6million to£2.9million in the year to September.	metaphorical	1
The markets.	metaphorical	1
Kingfisher's£461million bid for Dixon's led to a resurgence of speculative activity yesterday.	metaphorical	1
Dixons' shares jumped to 153p in early trading but ended the day at 141p, a 22p rise.	metaphorical	1
Other recently depressed stores, and companies with businesses similar to Dixons, rose in sympathy.	metaphorical	1
Gus A were particularly prominent at 1118p, up 28p ahead of today's interim figure.	metaphorical	1
Properties continued to shine as British Land produced a complicated scheme to release the value of its property portfolio.	metaphorical	1
British Land closed at 405p, a net gain of 48p.	metaphorical	1
Hammerson shot up 45p to 855p in sympathy.	metaphorical	1
Tokyo: Nikkei index: 37,654.29(37,494.17).	literal	0
Hong Kong: Hang Seng index: 2,756.39(2,764.44).	literal	0
Frankfurt: FAZ index: 695.74(684.01).	literal	0
Paris: CAC index: 542.6(543.8).	literal	0
PAGE	literal	0
Edoardo Amaldi.	literal	0
Ragazzi of distinction:.	metaphorical	1
IN December, 1943, the men working feverishly to create the first American atomic bomb sent a team of‘spooks’ to Naples.	metaphorical	1
One of their main assignments was to contact Edoardo Amaldi, a physicist thought to be in hiding near Rome.	metaphorical	1
Six months later, the day before Rome's liberation by the Allies, Amaldi was found.	metaphorical	1
He was interviewed by Moe Berg, then one of the most famous baseball players in America.	metaphorical	1
Berg was also an agent of the Office of Strategic Services, which was later to give birth to the CIA.	metaphorical	1
His job was to convince Amaldi to pack his bags because there was a ship waiting at Naples to take him to the United States.	metaphorical	1
Amaldi's presence there had been sought by two other Italian colleagues, also physicists.	metaphorical	1
His mentor, Enrico Fermi, later to be called‘the father of the bomb’, and Emilio Segre(who died in California earlier this year).	metaphorical	1
Amaldi dodged the American invitation, perhaps because(with Rome liberated) Fermi's mantle in physics had fallen on his young shoulders and there were younger minds to teach.	metaphorical	1
He wore that mantle well at Rome University until his retirement in 1978.	metaphorical	1
But Amaldi never really retired nor grew old.	metaphorical	1
He kept regular hours in the university's physics building, spoke at scientific meetings this year in Moscow and Washington.	metaphorical	1
As President of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei he had delivered the welcoming address on Tuesday to a symposium of scientists.	metaphorical	1
He then ordered a car to call for him the next morning for a similar occasion and was felled by a stroke while waiting for the lift.	metaphorical	1
Amaldi grew up in a small town in Lombardy, and took his doctorate in physics from Rome at the remarkably early age of 21.	metaphorical	1
In 1929, he became one of the ragazzi di Via Panisperna— the street where Fermi's‘kids’ carried out their own experiments under the master in their own under-financed lab.	metaphorical	1
Emilio Segre was one kid, and Bruno Pontecorvo, later to defect from Britain to the Soviet Union, another.	literal	0
It is interesting to note that the‘pope’— as the kids called Fermi—‘because he's always right’, was only seven years older than Amaldi.	metaphorical	1
Amaldi astounded his group in October 1934 with his discovery that by slowing down, rather than accelerating, neutrons, he could provoke intense nuclear reactions.	metaphorical	1
He held a chair in physics from 1937 until his retirement publishing more than 150 papers on atomic and nuclear physics.	metaphorical	1
He was awarded honorary degrees by Algiers, Glasgow and Oxford.	metaphorical	1
He became a founder, and active executive, of the European Centre for Nuclear Research in Geneva.	metaphorical	1
I had the pleasure of two long talks last year with Professor Amaldi about his knowledge of what the German physicists were doing with their atoms during the war years.	metaphorical	1
Apart for his incongruously white hair, Amaldi seemed to have the mental lucidity and expected energy of a man half his age.	metaphorical	1
His modesty, considering his world-wide fame in his field, was endearing.	metaphorical	1
I knew almost nothing about physics but we shared some jokes about the Rome telephone system.	metaphorical	1
In 1949, Amaldi wrote to the Italian prime minister asking for permission to produce and sell sealing wax for letters,‘so that we may raise needed funds for our physics lab’.	metaphorical	1
The reply came from an under-secretary who said that the present funding was considered adequate and the commercial undertaking would be ill-advised.	metaphorical	1
It was signed by Giulio Andreotti, the present prime minister.	metaphorical	1
George Armstrong Edoardo Amaldi, born Carpaneto Piacentino September 5, 1908; died Rome, December 5, 1989.	literal	0
Midwife at the birth of a state.	metaphorical	1
THE INTIFADA is a people's unarmed revolution against occupation.	metaphorical	1
Its two main slogans, repeated countless times in the directives issued by the underground leadership, are freedom and independence.	metaphorical	1
It has employed a dual strategy to achieve these two objectives.	metaphorical	1
First, a comprehensive civil disobedience campaign was begun by which people severed, or minimised, all the contact points by which they were bound to the Israeli occupation authority.	metaphorical	1
This campaign included resignations of Palestinian officials from public posts, the boycott of Israeli goods and products, and the refusal to pay taxes and fines.	metaphorical	1
Partial and full strikes, demonstrations, sit-ins, conventions… all these have in fact only constituted the outer layer of an inner mechanism of civilian rebellion.	metaphorical	1
The second, and complementary, part of the Intifada strategy concentrated on the construction of an indigenous national authority.	metaphorical	1
As Israel's authority was being lifted, the population began creating an alternative authority of their own.	metaphorical	1
Popular committees were established in villages, refugee camps, suburbs, streets, in fact in every community.	metaphorical	1
Some headway was made in expanding self-sufficiency, whether through utilising more land for agriculture, developing home economies, or encouraging local manufacturers and products.	metaphorical	1
Villages and refugee camps were thus being developed into‘liberated’ or‘independent’ areas, if not militarily, then at least psychologically, politically and infrastructurally.	metaphorical	1
Bloody clashes would occur whenever armoured units raided these villages, storming through makeshift defensive road blocks and responding to rocks being thrown with live bullets and tear gas; but no sooner would these army units be gone than authority would revert to the village residents.	metaphorical	1
Palestinian flags would be raised on minarets and church spires, road blocks would again be erected, and life in all its aspects would once again be run by the local leadership.	metaphorical	1
The structure of the developing national authority has been both diffuse enough to prevent it from being destroyed by any one single sweep of arrests(there have been more than 50,000 arrests since the Intifada's outbreak), and coherent enough to allow for the existence of a unified resistance strategy.	metaphorical	1
While the entire network of popular committees, local institutions and the general public constitute the field commanders in the battle of civilian disobedience and of constructing a political infrastructure, a rotating Unified National Command acts in the role of field-general, issuing a bi-monthly directive outlining policy and determining specific resistance programmes.	metaphorical	1
A high level of mobility in the structure allows for continuous interchange of roles and ideas, and retains for the Unified National Command the closeness to grass roots that is required to make it truly reflect people's wishes and sentiments.	metaphorical	1
THIS expanded network of popular committees and institutions making up the Unified leadership is infused by tens of thousands of activists who belong to, or identify with, the different factions of the PLO.	metaphorical	1
In effect, therefore, the PLO exists at all levels of organisation within the occupied territories.	metaphorical	1
Thus the Palestinian national movement both inside and outside the occupied territories is an organic whole.	metaphorical	1
The pattern of the Intifada has been cyclical.	metaphorical	1
Thrusts of resistance(mass demonstrations, resignations, tax rebellions, etc) would come in crests.	metaphorical	1
The pattern is determined by a wide variety of factors, including what the Israeli army does.	metaphorical	1
But the relation is complex, not uni- directional.	metaphorical	1
Harsh measures— putting an entire community under an absolute curfew for a continuous lengthy period of time, demolishing homes, uprooting olive or citrus trees, physical intimidation and terror tactics employed by raiding army units, shooting, killing, cutting off water or electricity supplies and telephone links to villages or towns, mass arrests, intimidatory interrogation techniques— can either create a temporary lull or activate an eruption.	metaphorical	1
The army never knows which it will be.	metaphorical	1
It is as if it is walking through a minefield.	metaphorical	1
The wave- like pattern of the Intifada, its pains and sufferings, are all reminiscent of the process of birth.	metaphorical	1
The metaphor is apt, as Palestinians regard themselves as engaging in a process of giving birth to their independent Palestinian state.	metaphorical	1
Through their revolution, the masses are both mother and midwife to the birth of this state.	metaphorical	1
The Intifada is the midwife of freedom.	metaphorical	1
Through it, Palestinians are struggling on a daily basis to shake off Israel's authority and to construct their own.	metaphorical	1
The struggle reflects a revolution in mass consciousness, by which people have come to realise that ideas and aspirations must be embodied in manifest acts if reality is to be changed.	metaphorical	1
Thus, wherever one looks, one finds people engaged in the construction of the blocks that will make up the Palestinian state.	metaphorical	1
It is a conscious effort.	metaphorical	1
The masses are being engaged in the craft of state- masonry.	metaphorical	1
In this process of state building, many stages have been covered.	metaphorical	1
The Declaration of Independence issued by the Palestine National Council(PNC) on November 15 last year constitutes a major landmark along this road.	metaphorical	1
Its significance lies in its double message: that the aim of the Palestinian struggle is the establishment of Palestinian independence, and that this independence is regarded as being not at Israel's expense.	metaphorical	1
This has been a constant theme of Intifada policy: that we wish to build(Palestine), not to destroy(Israel); that we wish to achieve freedom(for our people), not to deprive others(Israelis) of it; that we wish to protect and save lives(ours), not to endanger the lives of others(Israelis).	metaphorical	1
In one of several Intifada leaflets written in Hebrew and addressed to the Israeli soldiers on duty in the occupied territories, the message was repeated: Soldier, go home.	metaphorical	1
Return to your family and children.	literal	0
Be with them in peace so that we may remain with our family and children in peace.	metaphorical	1
We do not wish to harm you, or your state.	metaphorical	1
We wish to be unharmed, in our own state.	metaphorical	1
How can the process of state building be developed?	metaphorical	1
If the PNC Declaration of Independence constituted a major landmark in this process, the time has come to embark on another major step, that of declaring the setting up of a state or government structure.	metaphorical	1
AN ESCALATION of the Intifada in this direction would serve two purposes at once.	metaphorical	1
First, it would consolidate the structures of the developing national authority which is competing to replace the occupation authority.	metaphorical	1
Second, it would consolidate the image and essence of the Intifada as a constructive, not a destructive, force.	metaphorical	1
Naturally, to embark on such a step is not necessarily to succeed immediately in realising it.	metaphorical	1
Rather, it is a challenge.	metaphorical	1
It will be a further challenge to Israel's occupation, conceived in the image of earlier challenges of the Intifada.	metaphorical	1
But it will also be a challenge to us, Palestinians, summoning us to work more energetically towards the idea's fulfilment.	metaphorical	1
It would be a natural extension of the Intifada's dual strategy towards disengagement from Israel, and the corresponding process of state building.	metaphorical	1
It would further naturalise and legitimise the evolving skeletal form of Palestinian independence.	metaphorical	1
It would provide the multitudinous popular committees and activities with a more advanced form of organisation and structure.	metaphorical	1
It would enable better planning and performance.	literal	0
It would maximise civilian tactics of resistance and defuse the natural potential for violence, containing and eventually eliminating the marginal but intrusive phenomenon of collaborator activation by Israeli security authorities and collaborator execution by local Palestinians.	metaphorical	1
It would create a further fact that would put Israel on the spot.	metaphorical	1
Israel's reaction, however hostile, could only further our cause.	metaphorical	1
Arresting or deporting the tens of thousands of Palestinian professionals who would be employed in perfectly apolitical, harmless and humanitarian jobs can only further isolate the Israeli Government.	metaphorical	1
Half-way measures can only imply half-way success.	metaphorical	1
A modus vivendi would also imply success.	metaphorical	1
In general, our policy should be to proceed with building our state block by block, without waiting to be given a gift of it through negotiations.	metaphorical	1
We should regard negotiations rather as the means by which we could establish formal agreements between our state and Israel.	metaphorical	1
Such agreements can range from the issue of borders to the issue of free wave-lengths for our future television and radio networks.	metaphorical	1
In the meantime, we have the capacity to bring coherence and organisation to a whole range of activities, further consolidating the institutional linkage between the people in the occupied state and the PLO leadership.	metaphorical	1
Entire departments can be set up, in health, foreign affairs, agriculture, trade, finance, education, justice, religion, information and social welfare.	metaphorical	1
A pyramid administrative structure, establishing links from popular committees in villages right up to the Executive Committee of the PLO(in its capacity as a Cabinet), can be established.	metaphorical	1
During the Intifada the people have been engaged in building the side walls.	metaphorical	1
A government would provide the roof which would bring these walls together.	metaphorical	1
It would add another necessary touch in the process of creating a Palestinian home.	metaphorical	1
Sari Nusseibeh, a leading Palestinian intellectual, is professor of philosophy at Bir Zeit, the West Bank university closed by the Israelis early last year.	metaphorical	1
His ideas are widely influential among Palestinians.	metaphorical	1
Nusseibeh…	literal	0
‘The Palestinian national movement inside and outside the occupied territories is an organic whole’ PHOTOGRAPH: DAVID SILLITOE	metaphorical	1
The day thrift turned into a nightmare.	metaphorical	1
By Daniel John	literal	0
GEORGE Tyson is not a gambling man nor does he take unnecessary risks.	metaphorical	1
He does n't smoke or drink, and even if he wanted to, two heart attacks and a by-pass operation have made the decision for him.	metaphorical	1
By his own account, Mr Tyson is thrifty and states quite proudly that neither he or his wife Rosie are a burden on any form of social or government support.	metaphorical	1
But that is why, at the age of 68, Mr Tyson is not enjoying what he had hoped would be a comfortable retirement.	metaphorical	1
A life of saving had, by 1985, given them a small nest-egg of£15,000 on which the interest would help supplement their pensions.	metaphorical	1
To the Tysons, that meant nothing extravagant— just an extra£135 a month to make life at home in South Ruislip, Middlesex easier.	metaphorical	1
That money was invested as might be expected of the Tysons.	metaphorical	1
And for three years, it earned its return, every month.	metaphorical	1
Until one morning in June 1988 when George Tyson turned on the radio to hear a small, investment business called Barlow Clowes had collapsed.	metaphorical	1
‘It was about 8.30am and I was just getting dressed when it came over on the news,’ said Mr Tyson, a former clerk of works at Harrow council, London.	metaphorical	1
Investors in Barlow Clowes since 1985, the Tysons had orginally put£10,000 into the UK fund and£5,000 in Gibraltar-based Barlow Clowes International(BCI).	metaphorical	1
Fate determined that a short while before the businesses failed, they transferred the£10,000 to BCI because of the better returns being offered.	metaphorical	1
In the days that followed, the Tysons found that they and 18,000 other investors had been the victims of a financial crash of global proportions.	metaphorical	1
Of the£190million invested in both funds, BCI investors faced a shortfall of up to£100million.	metaphorical	1
After the initial shock and disbelief, the Tysons grew angry— at the advisers who convinced them about Barlow Clowes, at the Midland bank manager who gave verbal assurances of its security, at the regulatory authorities responsible for the investment community and at the Department of Trade and Industry which allowed the company to trade.	metaphorical	1
‘I felt it was so safe, they were so professional,’ said Mr Tyson.	metaphorical	1
‘I feel appalled by the way these professional guardians have treated us.	metaphorical	1
If you were a gambling man it would not affect you, it would just be lost.	metaphorical	1
But this was not a gamble.’	metaphorical	1
Like so many investors, Mr Tyson found himself having to go back to work to ease the financial strain he had hoped to avoid.	metaphorical	1
Ironically, it was the Government which he partly blamed for the affair that gave him the chance to return to work after retirement.	metaphorical	1
A change in the tax rules affecting pensions was shortly followed by a job with the Department of Environment's Property Services Agency, a post which carries him through to March and may see him stay until he is 70.	metaphorical	1
Putting it as politely as he can, Mr Tyson said the whole affair‘encouraged’ him to return to paid employment.	metaphorical	1
‘I had n't planned to work at all.’	metaphorical	1
And like all of the other investors, he and his wife were in a quandry.	metaphorical	1
They wanted to do something but felt powerless.	metaphorical	1
Pursuing legal action would have cost them money they did n't have(unless it meant selling their house which was not an option) but doing nothing left them with the feeling that justice was n't being done.	metaphorical	1
So they compromised and gave£100 to the Barlow Clowes Investors Group which was formed last July to represent the investors' interests and co-ordinate the fight for compensation.	metaphorical	1
That, says Mr Tyson, has been their only blessing.	metaphorical	1
‘They are dedicated people who clearly know what they are talking about and have guided us through it.	metaphorical	1
Those people are victims, too, but they have certainly kept us together.’	metaphorical	1
That aside, the last year has brought little respite from their own, very personal, crisis.	metaphorical	1
The Tysons have yet to>see any cash payment from the liquidators who have been winding up BCI's affairs.	metaphorical	1
What little money has been recovered remains the subject of a legal tussle in the courts which may yet take months to resolve.	metaphorical	1
They have been told that their claim may only amount to around£11,000 of their£15,000 as capital gains tax is likely to be deducted from the total.	metaphorical	1
But until they get any money back, the Tysons find themselves in the position of the gambler who gambled all and lost.	metaphorical	1
Except that the Tysons do n't gamble.	metaphorical	1
The boy and the dog skirted round opposite sides of the puddle, the boy, a light, tall fourteen-year-old, labouring in wellington boots too large for him, and the dog, a three-year-old Labrador bitch, picking her way reluctantly, with frequent pauses, as if her paws hurt.	metaphorical	1
The boy, unlike the dog, knew that the mud did not go on for ever; beyond the bridge, the disused railway embankment along which they were walking became built up, so that water ran off it.	metaphorical	1
He pulled the dog close to him to let a mixed string of horses and Ponies go past, waving shyly to the lead rider, a pretty, capable girl an unbridgeable two years older than him.	metaphorical	1
He watched her as she went past at a walk, the black Labrador and he both gazing wistfully, their breath steaming in the cold February morning.	metaphorical	1
He waited till the horses were well away and looked round the wide, flat landscape carefully before unclipping the lead.	literal	0
‘Way you go, Patty,’ he said softly, and the dog was off, hurling herself along the embankment, all paws and flying ears, after a rabbit who had been sitting in a patch of sun but disappeared with contemptuous ease as she came close.	metaphorical	1
The boy had been told unequivocally not to let her off the lead— the riding-school only used the land by grace of its owner and it was a shooting estate— but he hated keeping the dog straining at the lead and knew that she would always come to his call.	metaphorical	1
He stood for a moment laughing at her as she cast furiously for the vanished rabbit, and walked on, to catch her up, along the raised embankment.	metaphorical	1
The trees had grown up beside it in the twenty-five years since the railway had closed, and the boy stopped every now and then to watch small birds hopping around the top branches.	metaphorical	1
He particularly liked this stretch; nothing but the odd tractor and the horses ever came down this embankment, and the birds were unworried by his presence. 	metaphorical	1
After half a mile he decided to turn off the embankment and walk up the side of the next field and along the path at the top of it, following the horses whom he could still see in the distance.	metaphorical	1
He called Patty to him.	metaphorical	1
She did n't come, which was surprising; she was a docile creature and particularly devoted to him because he always took her for a walk when he was at the stables.	metaphorical	1
He could hear her barking and looked down over the steep side of the embankment to the bottom of the trees.	literal	0
He called her again and again, but she would not stop barking at something he could not see.	metaphorical	1
Probably a squirrel, he decided, and slithered down the side of the embankment to join her, scolding as he went.	metaphorical	1
Straightening up beside the dog, he looked where she was looking, and blinked.	literal	0
He saw a leg, uncomfortably wedged between sapling trees, swollen grotesquely, and gazed at it, stupidly, wondering if it was plastic.	metaphorical	1
As his eyes focused he realized he was looking at a hideously swollen human body, and just then, as the light breeze shifted, he caught the stomach- turning odour of decay.	metaphorical	1
He was a sensible and capable boy, an eldest child, so he moved closer, trying not to breathe, and stood steadfastly looking until he was confident of what he had seen: a body, must be a girl because it was wearing a skirt, lying face down, head towards the bottom of the embankment as if she had dived off the top.	literal	0
He clipped the lead on to the dog with cold hands which would hardly function, and let her pull him up the slope as fast as he could make his legs move.	metaphorical	1
He stopped on the embankment, shaking with cold and shock, to note the spot, then fled along the tractor paths, the dog running with him, to the stables where the ten o'clock children's ride was in its closing stages.	metaphorical	1
‘Miss Williams!’	literal	0
‘Jamie, I'm teaching.’	literal	0
The thin, capable woman who was taking the riding-class looked at him in amazement as he leaned panting on the gate to the ring, the dog whining beside him.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm sorry.	literal	0
Please, I've found something, I must tell you. 	literal	0
She had known him since he was a very small five-year-old, perched like a mosquito on one of the placid beginners' ponies, so she told the class to carry on walking their ponies while she came to him.	metaphorical	1
‘There's someone dead.	literal	0
Below the railway embankment.’	literal	0
‘Are you sure?’	literal	0
The boy looked at her and uncontrollable tears suddenly filled his eyes.	metaphorical	1
He was very nearly as tall as her, but she put an arm under his shoulders and supported him to the untidy room which served as the stable office, calling to one of the stable girls to take over the class.	metaphorical	1
‘Patty found her.	literal	0
She's just lying there, but she is dead.’	literal	0
He scrubbed at his face with the handkerchief she offered and gulped for air.	metaphorical	1
‘I'll ring the police.’	literal	0
She did so, casting an experienced eye over him.	metaphorical	1
‘Sit down here, Jamie, and I'll make some tea.	literal	0
Mummy will come back in a few minutes, wo n't she, for Susie?’	metaphorical	1
‘Not Mummy.	literal	0
Aunt Margaret is coming at ten.’	metaphorical	1
The boy thought longingly of his mother, but managed to help Miss Williams describe the location of the body to a startled local station sergeant and to drink a cup of sweet milky tea without being sick.	metaphorical	1
By the time his aunt arrived Jamie was so far recovered as to be able to refuse to go home and to point out, severely, that he would be needed, either to assist the police or to be lead rider in the eleven-thirty class, or possibly both.	metaphorical	1
He watched his aunt and Miss Williams wordlessly consult each other, but knew his aunt would do as she was told; successful solicitor though she was, she was ten years younger than Miss Williams and, as she complained, totally intimidated by her as she had not been by anyone since her late headmistress.	metaphorical	1
He was unsurprised to find her packed off firmly to take his sister home, leaving him as a person of major importance in what he instantly assumed to be a real murder.	metaphorical	1
Miss Williams took him to meet the police Land Rover at the stable gate, a bone-thin, wiry woman in her late fifties, her expression sufficiently forbidding to prevent the parents, edging cars through the gate to collect children  from the ten o'clock ride, from asking any questions.	metaphorical	1
Jamie, through a renewed queasiness, just observed that the police driver was instantly reduced to half his age by Miss Williams's greeting.	metaphorical	1
‘He was one of my boys,’ she said in explanation to the CID sergeant who was leading the party as they bumped over the rough road, through the thick mud and on to the dry embankment.	metaphorical	1
‘Like Jamie here.’	literal	0
‘Did you recognize the person you found, young man?’ the sergeant asked, carefully.	metaphorical	1
‘No.’	literal	0
Tears started into Jamie's eyes.	literal	0
‘She was all swollen.’	literal	0
The sergeant's eyes widened, and he slid out of the Land Rover and stood back to let Jamie out.	metaphorical	1
‘Very competent boy.	literal	0
Almost a professional singer, handles himself very well.’	metaphorical	1
Miss Williams's natural pitch, well suited to reaching across a hunting-field, was discreetly reduced.	metaphorical	1
The CID sergeant thanked her gravely and went to stand beside Jamie who was peering down the embankment, looking pinched.	metaphorical	1
‘We'll go down together, lad.’	literal	0
‘There is n't room.	literal	0
I'll lead.’	literal	0
He took a deep breath and headed down, the sergeant, two constables and Miss Williams in his wake.	metaphorical	1
Soon they all stood side by side, one of the younger policemen coughing involuntarily.	literal	0
‘Oh dear, oh dear,’ Miss Williams said on an indrawn breath.	metaphorical	1
‘Sorry.	literal	0
Come along, Jamie, let's get you back.’	literal	0
She took out a handkerchief and mopped her eyes.	metaphorical	1
The police driver shot Jamie a look of enquiry which he missed, occupied as he was with guiding Miss Williams back up the hill.	metaphorical	1
He had seen her weep before but only for a sick horse, and he was awe-struck.	literal	0
‘Jamie, did you let Patty off the lead?’	literal	0
The boy blushed to his ears and owned to it.	metaphorical	1
‘You must not do it, Jamie, we'll be in trouble with Colonel James, I've told all you boys a thousand times.’	metaphorical	1
‘He'll perhaps not do it again,’ the sergeant murmured, and received the look that Miss Williams habitually bent on a child who was riding carelessly.	metaphorical	1
‘How long had she been there?’	metaphorical	1
Jamie asked, anxiously. 	literal	0
‘A few days,’ the sergeant said, grimly.	metaphorical	1
‘How many?’	literal	0
‘Doctor'll tell us.’	literal	0
He considered the boy thoughtfully, and decided to take him back quickly.	metaphorical	1
These teenagers were in his experience a lot less tough than they looked.	metaphorical	1
‘Any idea who it could be?’ he asked Miss Williams casually.	literal	0
‘No.	literal	0
But only a local would know to put a body there.	literal	0
If Jamie had n't let the dog off the lead she could have been there much longer.’	literal	0
The sergeant nodded, deciding it could do no harm to concede a point he had already taken.	metaphorical	1
‘No one could tell who she was, surely?’	metaphorical	1
Miss Williams said quietly to him, sounding shaky.	metaphorical	1
‘She did n't even look human.’	literal	0
The sergeant confirmed that that happened with bodies after a few days.	metaphorical	1
‘We'll identify her, though,’ he said, reassuringly.	literal	0
‘Somebody will likely have reported her missing.’	literal	0
He stopped, abruptly, as he remembered a conversation earlier that week, and lit a cigarette, thinking furiously.	metaphorical	1
This could be the girl whom the Yard were looking for, and he had better do everything very quickly indeed, including finding his Chief, who would then want to find his Chief Constable and notify Scotland Yard.	metaphorical	1
Presumably it would be the Yard who investigated this one, rather than the regional crime squad.	metaphorical	1
He chewed his thumbnail as he walked, out of long experience keeping in mind the highest priorities: Ensure Body Not Moved and Ensure Next of Kin Notified before the Press got the story.	metaphorical	1
He posted the detective constable he had with him back down the path to join his colleague, armed with instructions to repel all attempts by anyone, however senior or armed with whatever authority, to go anywhere near the body unless he, Sergeant Black, personally accompanied them.	metaphorical	1
Then he climbed into the Land Rover beside his two passengers and drove off fast, with the aim of abandoning Jamie to the custody of his aunt as quickly as possible.	metaphorical	1
He could see with half an eye that the kid's aunt was going to be one of the confident, bossy, well- connected women with  whom that part of Cambridgeshire was substantially over- provided.	metaphorical	1
John McLeish was in his office, Saturday or no Saturday, telling himself he needed to catch up on the paperwork.	metaphorical	1
The phone rang and he picked it up, frowning.	literal	0
One of the pleasures of Saturday working was that the phone did not ring all the time.	literal	0
The voice at the other end was plainly over-excited and it took him a minute to disentangle what he was being told.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh congratulations, Charlie.	literal	0
Sorry, what did you say it was again?’	literal	0
‘A little girl.	literal	0
Actually a very big girl as these things go, nine pounds.	metaphorical	1
It's fantastic, John, there she is, a new person, lying on her face, sound asleep.	metaphorical	1
I've just left them and I'm going back.’	literal	0
McLeish repressed the malicious thought that this event might put Francesca's nose just a little bit out of joint.	metaphorical	1
She had been utterly secure in her position as the only girl in the Wilson family and now there was another one.	metaphorical	1
‘I've got another bit of good news.	metaphorical	1
Frannie's going to be able to bring Tristram home pretty soon, apparently.’	literal	0
McLeish expressed qualified enthusiasm and Charlie assured him he felt exactly the same about his younger brother.	metaphorical	1
‘The difficulty is that Perry does everything that bit better than Tristram.	metaphorical	1
Not that this is any excuse, John, I do know.’	metaphorical	1
He paused, reminding McLeish irresistibly of a Labrador wondering how best to approach an acquaintance.	metaphorical	1
‘I wanted to say, you see, that I know you thought Frannie should n't have gone, and that it's ruined your holiday plans, and, on behalf of us all, I'm sorry.	metaphorical	1
I know the little boys lean on her too much and I would have gone if I could.’	metaphorical	1
He coughed, embarrassed and a little pompous, very much conscious of his new status as a father, while McLeish remembered that he was a scant four years older than the delinquent Tristram.	literal	0
‘Anyway she should be back soon,’ Charlie concluded.	metaphorical	1
McLeish thanked him gravely, feeling, as he often did with the Wilsons, that he was being enveloped in a large  feather eiderdown, and, made restless by the call, went down the corridor to where he knew Catherine Crane was also in, getting her office in order.	metaphorical	1
He stopped at the door and smiled at her.	metaphorical	1
Wearing jeans and a blue shirt, she was tugging at a filing cabinet which was too large for her to embrace and which was threatening to over-balance on her.	metaphorical	1
She looked about sixteen and beautiful.	metaphorical	1
She let go of the cabinet, coughing in the dust of ages that appeared to be lurking behind it, and smiled back at him as the February sun shone through the small window behind her, throwing into sharp relief the patches on the wall where her predecessor had hung posters, and the ingrained dirt on the flaking paintwork round the mean, narrow, metal window.	metaphorical	1
‘Where do you want that put?’	literal	0
McLeish advanced on the cabinet and shifted it authoritatively, ignoring the clip on the ankle dealt him by an unsecured bottom drawer apparently full of bricks.	metaphorical	1
‘I should have unloaded it first,’ Catherine Crane said, apologetically,‘but I just could n't move in any direction with it where it was.’	metaphorical	1
‘I'm here, just tell me if you want anything else shifted.’	literal	0
He hesitated.	literal	0
‘I'm going to do another hour, then have some lunch, if you want to come?’	metaphorical	1
He was aware that he was not managing to sound exactly like a senior officer making a recent arrival feel at home, but decided not to add any further riders to his invitation.	metaphorical	1
‘That would be very nice.	metaphorical	1
Are we going to the canteen?’	literal	0
‘Not if I can help it.	literal	0
What about the pub?	metaphorical	1
‘If I'm allowed to buy my own.’	literal	0
McLeish considered.	literal	0
‘That's fine on the food— I'll buy the drinks, I'm too old to get used to women buying my drinks.’	metaphorical	1
She laughed at him and said gravely that she would be happy to indulge him, and he went away, grinning.	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo was also in his office, having told his wife he was lunching with a client.	literal	0
It was, he felt, just too difficult to be at home at all, with Claudia in a permanently bitchy mood and both his teenage children taking their cue from her and  behaving intolerably.	metaphorical	1
He wandered restlessly about, and decided that the lie might as well become the truth.	metaphorical	1
Without Angela Morgan, at least two major clients were in danger of not getting the assiduous service they were paying for, and it would be well worth trying to see if one of them, whom he knew to be a fellow refugee from family life at the weekends, could be found.	metaphorical	1
He was in luck, and fixed to meet Andy Barton at Brazzo's where Yeo Davis had a table permanently booked.	metaphorical	1
He had to admit that this particular client hardly added to the general decorative smartness of the place.	metaphorical	1
Andy Barton, founder and chief executive of Barton Textiles, was almost as broad as he was long, virtually neckless, with incongruously long brown hair curling over his collar.	literal	0
His enormous hands dwarfed the elegant menu which he was studying in apparent disbelief, and Peter Yeo noticed again, as Barton without rising extended one massive paw, that though the fingers were an ordinary length it was the width of the palms that made the hands so large.	metaphorical	1
‘I never see how they get the sales per square foot in these places,’ Barton observed, without further greeting.	metaphorical	1
‘I mean, they're not open twelve hours like my shops, and they are n't using the space.’	metaphorical	1
His small bright blue eyes swept disparagingly over the minimalized black and white flooring, stainless steel chairs and black wooden bar.	metaphorical	1
‘They make a huge margin on a smaller turnover, Andy, out of punters like us.’	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo was amused by, and respectful of, a man with an obsession.	metaphorical	1
‘Angela not working today?’	literal	0
Barton worked a sixteen-hour day, which began with careful, detailed consideration of the trading figures and key ratios for every one of his forty-three major shops and the output of both factories, and continued, usually by helicopter, with a detailed aerial survey of a particular area as the quick way of identifying new sites, interspersed with unheralded descents on the manager of any shop he took a fancy to visit.	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo, who had known this particular juggernaut since he had his first small factory and two stores and dirt  under his fingernails from shifting packing-cases personally, was not fazed by the question.	metaphorical	1
‘Angela's taking a few days off— she has n't been well,’ he said, easily.	metaphorical	1
‘I know she's been working very hard for you.	metaphorical	1
I'm up to speed with Huerter, of course, but is your planning application in Leicester all right?’	metaphorical	1
Barton assured him warmly that Angela had done a great job and he was now confident of getting planning permission on the vast site he had wanted.	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo, who knew him in this over- candid, over- emphatic mood, decided to prod gently.	metaphorical	1
‘Angela said the council wanted it for housing?’	metaphorical	1
‘Yeah, some of them did.	literal	0
Silly buggers, it's jobs they want there first.	metaphorical	1
Plenty of housing if those stupid farts at the council got round to repairing it and stopped their tenants tearing apart what they have got.	metaphorical	1
My Mum brought up five of us in a flat far worse than what these immigrants complain about.’	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo, who had personally persuaded Barton of the presentational disadvantage of using words like‘darkies’,‘niggers’ or‘wogs’, decided that‘immigrants’ even though used in the manner of one invoking a curse, was as good as he was going to get with this particular client.	metaphorical	1
‘She's doing a good job on sorting this Huerter thing, too.	metaphorical	1
Bloody ridiculous them blokes at the DTI pushing assistance for Huerter.	metaphorical	1
I voted for this government because they said they were n't going to go in for that sort of rubbish.	metaphorical	1
No one ever gave me anything and my business works.	metaphorical	1
Still, Angie can fix the Treasury on this one, given her boyfriend, ca n't she?	metaphorical	1
That's the reason I wanted you on this.’	metaphorical	1
Peter Yeo winced inwardly, but he was not going to tell Andy Barton that Angela was missing, or express any of his reservations about how much influence Angela could bring to bear.	metaphorical	1
He smoothly changed the subject to the looks of the blond model, three tables away, and Barton agreed he would n't mind a bit of that; on the thin side, mind you, but tasty.	metaphorical	1
The rest of lunch passed in similar diversion, interspersed with details of last week's turnover which  were never far from Barton's mind, whatever other distractions offered.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Huntley was having lunch with her daughter.	metaphorical	1
She ate placidly, acknowledging to herself with her customary good sense that at the moment, as at any time since her brother William had died, she and Penelope were getting no pleasure at all from each other's company.	metaphorical	1
Penelope was looking particularly discontented and disaffected, picking at her food.	metaphorical	1
Her red suit was smart, but too bright a colour for her pale English pink and white skin, her brown hair could have done with a wash and her nails were ragged and bitten.	metaphorical	1
She was frowning, deep lines appearing between her eyebrows, mouth drawn down at the edges so that instead of a classically good-looking slim English Rose in her late twenties, she looked faded, years older than her real age, and shrewish.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Huntley sighed; her brother whom she had loved, but knew to be self-indulgent to a fault, had done his niece real harm by leaving so much of his money away from the girl who had confidently believed herself to be his favourite thing on earth.	metaphorical	1
Penelope, however, it had to be acknowledged, had made no attempt to rise above the blow she had been dealt by finding a dazzling girl of her own age favoured over herself in her uncle's will.	metaphorical	1
At least, Mrs Huntley thought hopefully, she had stopped wondering, unbecomingly and stridently, how her uncle could have been fooled by Angela Morgan.	metaphorical	1
It was Grizel Huntley's own view that her brother had not been fooled at all but had been charmed and diverted by a dashing girl thirty years his junior, and had seen no reason at all why she should not have a share of his considerable estate when that left a very decent down-setting for his niece as well.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, she had respected Angela Morgan for the straightforwardness with which she had tackled the issue when they had met at the lawyer's office.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm sorry you're disappointed,’ she had said to Penelope,‘but after all there's a lot of money, quite enough for both of us.’	metaphorical	1
So there was, Grizel Huntley acknowledged, and it would be  a great deal better if Penny could manage to think a bit more positively.	metaphorical	1
‘If she has vanished, I'm going to see that solicitor about whether I can get her presumed dead.’	metaphorical	1
Penny, sounding childishly, sullenly determined, broke into her mother's thoughts.	metaphorical	1
Grizel Huntley looked across at her, shocked.	metaphorical	1
‘I would wait a little if I were you.’	literal	0
Penelope glared at her, turning an ungraceful scarlet, but Mrs Huntley held her ground.	metaphorical	1
‘You are being silly about this, Penny.	metaphorical	1
You are letting this disappointment— and that's all it is, you're still a very well-off young woman— get in the way of everything.’	metaphorical	1
Penelope choked on her pudding and started to cry, angry, uncontrollable tears.	metaphorical	1
Grizel Huntley reached out to comfort her but she forced back her chair and fled, clutching her handbag and napkin, leaving her mother with the ruins of lunch.	metaphorical	1
Fifty miles north, Sarah Morgan had just finished serving a lunch that no one had done more than pick at.	literal	0
Her husband Francis had made a slightly better showing than her daughter Jennifer, who was looking particularly ragged.	metaphorical	1
Mother and daughter were very like each other, tall, dark, slim, pleasant-looking women with mid-brown curly hair and slightly snub noses.	metaphorical	1
Francis Morgan, by contrast, was dark, almost black-haired, sallow-skinned, with bright brown eyes.	metaphorical	1
Of medium height and packed with energy, even distressed as he was, he was bursting round the kitchen, hair still damp at the back from his swim.	metaphorical	1
‘Let's go to the flicks.	literal	0
No point at all sitting round looking at each other.	metaphorical	1
Come on Jennifer— or are you going out with Michael?’	metaphorical	1
‘He's gone back to Australia, Dad.	literal	0
Last week.’	literal	0
Jennifer sounded defeated, and he looked at her sideways with familiar love and exasperation.	metaphorical	1
She just did n't seem to be able to hang on to men, he thought impatiently, not like his Angie, wherever she was.	literal	0
‘Giles rang up,’ his daughter volunteered, and he was uncomfortably reminded by something in her voice that  Giles Hawick was one of the men Jennifer had n't been able to hang on to— or not once he had seen Angela.	metaphorical	1
‘How was he?’ his wife Sarah asked, rather too quickly.	literal	0
‘Well, very worried.	metaphorical	1
He said the police were talking to everyone Angie had seen in the two weeks before she… well… vanished, and so far had come up with nothing.	metaphorical	1
I mean no one noticed anything unusual about her and she seemed to be full of plans for the wedding.’	metaphorical	1
‘Well, I told them that,’ Francis Morgan said irritably and his wife and daughter caught each other's eye in silent agreement that he had n't told them that Angela was refusing point-black to be married from home and was insisting on the full London set-out, reception at the House of Commons, replying unanswerably when he had objected on grounds of expense that she could well afford to pay for it herself.	metaphorical	1
A row of epic proportions had ensued, which he and Angela had evidently enjoyed but which had left Sarah and Jennifer sick with distress.	metaphorical	1
‘I do n't want to go out, Frank.	literal	0
Someone might ring.’	metaphorical	1
Sarah Morgan was sounding diffident but resolute, and as Morgan opened his mouth to protest in exasperation the doorbell rang.	metaphorical	1
Both women looked at him in joint appeal and he marched to the door, pulling it open with unnecessary force.	metaphorical	1
He stood, door in hand, checked by something in the way his visitors, a man and a woman, were standing.	metaphorical	1
The man, a stocky, greying fifty-year-old in a navy raincoat over a suit, his hair cut short, was attended by a uniformed policewoman, hair smartly set under the cap, her eyes watchful in the wide, flat, placid face, and both of them were standing square and stolid.	metaphorical	1
Francis Morgan stood and stared at them, and even before the man stepped forward steadily, hand extended, mouth opening to speak, he understood who they were and what they had come to tell him. 	metaphorical	1
Mark Sanders returned from Istanbul feeling exhausted, depressed and ill.	metaphorical	1
The blinding headaches he had been experiencing in recent weeks were taking their toll, and he looked grey and drawn when he arrived home.	metaphorical	1
Lately, Georgina had been worried by the general deterioration in his appearance.	metaphorical	1
But now she was visibly shocked by the drained and haggard-looking face which kissed her.	metaphorical	1
She wanted to say,‘You look awful, darling,’ but decided against it.	metaphorical	1
‘What kind of a trip have you had?’ she asked instead.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh, not too bad,’ he replied wearily.	literal	0
She took his suitcase and placed it at the bottom of the stairs.	literal	0
‘Come into the kitchen, and we will have a cup of tea.	metaphorical	1
I' ve so much news to tell you.	metaphorical	1
All sorts of things seem to have happened while you have been away this time.’	metaphorical	1
Mark smiled thinly and kissed her affectionately on the cheek.	metaphorical	1
‘Tell me about it,’ he replied.	metaphorical	1
‘I could do with a good laugh.’	metaphorical	1
‘Why darling?	literal	0
What's the matter?	literal	0
Trouble at t'mill?’	literal	0
Mark slipped an arm around her slim waist as they walked from the hall into the kitchen.	literal	0
‘Perhaps it's old Montezuma's revenge,’ he replied.	literal	0
‘Must be getting too old for this globe-trotting lark, or else my mis-spent youth is catching up on me.	metaphorical	1
I'm rapidly coming to the conclusion that this is a young man's game.’	metaphorical	1
‘Nonsense, Mark.	literal	0
You're still a young man… well, youngish.’ she said, trying to tease him out of his apparent lethargy and depression.	metaphorical	1
‘Let's have that cup of tea and you'll feel better.’	metaphorical	1
‘Ah, fill the cup, what boots it to repeat, how time is slipping underneath our feet,’ he quoted with a sigh. 	metaphorical	1
‘Oh darling.	literal	0
What a sad sack we are today.	metaphorical	1
Is that how you feel?	metaphorical	1
Shall I accompany you on the violin?	metaphorical	1
Now let me tell you all the news.’	literal	0
She poured the tea.	literal	0
‘Christopher has been promoted after only one year.	metaphorical	1
The Chairman of the company told him he was most impressed with the contribution he's made to the business, and that he could go right to the top if he keeps it up.	metaphorical	1
I knew you'd be delighted to hear that.’	metaphorical	1
She sipped her tea.	literal	0
‘Next…	literal	0
I've found a super husband for Harriet.	literal	0
Champion of the breed at Crufts last year.	metaphorical	1
Lives in the next village, believe it or not.	literal	0
Absolutely magnificent dog.’	literal	0
‘Lucky Harriet,’ said Mark.	literal	0
‘What else?	literal	0
Ah yes; a Secretary at the Ministry of Industry wants you to ring him.	metaphorical	1
Seems they want you to address the European Commission on European industrial development.	metaphorical	1
In Dublin, I think she said.	literal	0
Something about the factors which influence multi-nat location decisions.	metaphorical	1
Anyway, you'll know what it means when you see it.	metaphorical	1
I've written it all down.	metaphorical	1
Oh and yes… a chap from Conservative Central Office rang up to say they'd like to know if you would be prepared to stand for the European Parliament.	metaphorical	1
He sounded somewhat to the right of Genghis Khan.	metaphorical	1
I said I did n't think so, as you were rather busy, but I'd pass the message on.	metaphorical	1
Hope I did the right thing.	metaphorical	1
I said you never knew where you were from one week to the next.	metaphorical	1
He said that would do nicely.	metaphorical	1
Just like the American Express advertisement.	literal	0
Perfect credentials apparently, for European parliamentarians.	literal	0
‘Now what next?	literal	0
The Chicheley-Smythes have bought an absolutely super villa in Sardinia and say we could rent it if we'd like to.	literal	0
I've seen the photographs.	literal	0
Gorgeous location overlooking a quiet bay.	metaphorical	1
It sleeps ten with a permanent staff of three.	literal	0
Only a thousand pounds a week, yacht included.	metaphorical	1
I'd love that for two or three weeks, would n't you?’	metaphorical	1
‘We would n't want to stint ourselves,’ Mark said facetiously,‘four or five, I should think….’	literal	0
‘And we could take the family,’ she said.	literal	0
‘We have n't had a family holiday for years.	metaphorical	1
I'd like that.	metaphorical	1
But we can talk about that later.	metaphorical	1
And I've decided to take up riding again.	metaphorical	1
Do n't ask me why.	literal	0
Just got the urge, that's all.’ 	metaphorical	1
She gave him a beautiful smile, which lit her lovely face.	metaphorical	1
‘Well, how's that for starters?’ she asked.	metaphorical	1
He had heard that expression before.	metaphorical	1
‘Is there more?,	literal	0
‘Now let me see.	metaphorical	1
Ah, yes…	literal	0
Andrew's coming home for the weekend so I thought it would be nice to have a drinks party.	metaphorical	1
I've invited the Bunkers, if that's all right.	metaphorical	1
I like Clem and Gwen and the girls would be nicer company for Andrew.’	literal	0
‘Fine,’ agreed Mark without much enthusiasm.	metaphorical	1
‘If Clem can make it, that is.	metaphorical	1
I heard about this latest Merseyside strike in Istanbul.	metaphorical	1
Could finish off the UK vehicle division,’ he said forlornly,‘and Don Peters,’ he added, shaking his head.	metaphorical	1
Some of the stupid bastards wo n't be satisfied until we no longer make a single vehicle in the UK.	literal	0
Then I suppose they'll say it's all management's fault, and people will believe them.	literal	0
And who the hell IS management?’ he demanded, his voice rising.	metaphorical	1
‘People like me, who've worked their guts out to expand the business while the militant bastards have been working their guts out to destroy it.’	metaphorical	1
Georgina was nodding agreement.	literal	0
She patted his wrist.	literal	0
‘I'm quite sure you're right, dear.	literal	0
But we were n't talking about the motor industry and the never-ending management-union saga.	metaphorical	1
We were talking about Andrew coming home for the weekend and having the Bunkers round for drinks.	metaphorical	1
And I do wish you would n't swear like that when you talk about business.	metaphorical	1
You never used to swear, you know.	literal	0
At least, you did n't when you were with me.	literal	0
But you do now, darling, and I do wish you would n't.	literal	0
You are becoming so hard and bitter and it's not really like you.’	metaphorical	1
Mark sighed.	literal	0
‘I'm sorry.	literal	0
It's just….’	literal	0
‘It's just that there really is trouble at t'mill,’ she said quietly.	literal	0
‘That's it, is n't it?	metaphorical	1
You were n't going to tell me.	literal	0
You were just going to worry about it alone.	metaphorical	1
You let me go rabitting on….	metaphorical	1
He hugged her; kissed her cheek.	literal	0
‘I'm not sure yet that there really is something to worry about.’	metaphorical	1
‘But you think there is.’	literal	0
He nodded.	literal	0
‘I have a horrible feeling that UM is about to reorganise  world-wide planning operations and, if that happens, it's curtains for the European organisation and for me.’	metaphorical	1
‘Curtains?’ she said.	literal	0
‘What exactly would that mean?’	metaphorical	1
‘Early retirement.’	literal	0
‘Mark, you're not serious!,	literal	0
‘I think it could be on the cards.	metaphorical	1
They could transfer me to Detroit, or somewhere.	literal	0
I do n't know, but I do n't like the signs.’	metaphorical	1
‘Oh, Mark,’ she said.	literal	0
‘They would n't do that to you.	metaphorical	1
They just could n't.	literal	0
Not after all you've done for the Corporation.	metaphorical	1
They could n't be that unfair and ruthless.’	literal	0
His expression was wry.	literal	0
‘My dear, they'll do whatever they feel is necessary to do.	metaphorical	1
Sentiment, loyalty, service and track record, none of these things will come into it.’	metaphorical	1
Georgina took him in her arms and kissed him on the lips.	literal	0
‘It's all so ridiculous that we're not going to even think about it any more,’ she said firmly, hiding her fears.	metaphorical	1
‘Now come into the garden,’ she added, smiling.	metaphorical	1
‘I want to show you the clematis.	literal	0
It's a mass of colour.’	metaphorical	1
Lying in bed that evening, they talked a lot about their life together.	metaphorical	1
They recalled their first days.	metaphorical	1
The county ball.	literal	0
The Paul Jones and the emotional somersaults when the music stopped and they came face to face for the very first time.	metaphorical	1
The wedding.	literal	0
The birth of their first son, Adam, and then Christopher and Andrew.	literal	0
The children growing up with all the laughter and tears.	metaphorical	1
Schooldays and the void they both felt when the boys went off to boarding school, followed by the joy unconfined when they came home at the end of term.	metaphorical	1
Mark's promotions and progress up the company ladder.	metaphorical	1
New and changing homes.	literal	0
Friends lost and friends gained.	metaphorical	1
Family achievements and disappointments.	literal	0
Notwithstanding current problems which they discussed lightly, it had all been wonderful.	metaphorical	1
They fell asleep in the early hours of the morning, holding hands. 	metaphorical	1
The next day Mark arrived back at UM's European headquarters in London and received an early call from Muldoon.	metaphorical	1
He went down the airless corridor to his Boss's office, said hello to the secretary, and walked into the large oak-panelled room which was as big as the lobby of many a sizeable hotel.	metaphorical	1
Muldoon rose immediately from his enormous black leather chair to greet him, coming from behind the vast desk with hand outstretched.	literal	0
‘Hello Mark.	literal	0
Have a good trip?’	metaphorical	1
He took the Englishman by the arm and ushered him toward the easy chairs arranged around a long rectangular coffee table.	literal	0
Instinctively, Mark felt uneasy.	metaphorical	1
Why the hand on the arm and the over- friendly approach?	metaphorical	1
Muldoon never emerged from behind his desk to greet colleagues.	literal	0
Only visitors and VIPs got that special reception.	metaphorical	1
Muldoon poured the coffee.	literal	0
‘How did the Planning meeting go?’	metaphorical	1
Mark asked him.	literal	0
‘What was Nate's reaction?	metaphorical	1
Did he and the Committee go along with my proposals?’ he added.	metaphorical	1
‘It went fine,’ Muldoon said.	metaphorical	1
He seemed somewhat uneasy.	literal	0
‘Klepner did a good job.’	metaphorical	1
‘How did he handle the questions?’	metaphorical	1
Mark asked.	literal	0
‘He does n't have the inside knowledge to deal with questions.’	metaphorical	1
‘Oh, OK really.	literal	0
I handled some and so did Mueller.	metaphorical	1
But Klepner did OK.	literal	0
He did n't let the side down.’	metaphorical	1
Mark nodded.	literal	0
‘What was Mueller doing answering questions.	literal	0
He was there to ASK them.	literal	0
He does n't know the inside track any more than Klepner.’	metaphorical	1
‘Maybe not, but he soon will,’ Muldoon replied quietly.	literal	0
‘And what does that mean?’	metaphorical	1
Muldoon seemed to be taking a long time over his coffee.	metaphorical	1
He evaded Mark's eyes.	metaphorical	1
‘He's goin' to head-up world planning operations from Detroit.’	metaphorical	1
‘He's already co-ordinating the regional plans to provide a world picture.	metaphorical	1
So what's changed?’	literal	0
Deep down he knew.	metaphorical	1
‘He's not going to just co-ordinate and consolidate any longer,’ Muldoon said, with increasing nervousness.	metaphorical	1
‘He's gon na  plan, direct and control worldwide planning operations from Detroit, including the regional planning functions.’	metaphorical	1
Mark's expression was one of faked incredulity.	metaphorical	1
His gut feelings had been right.	metaphorical	1
‘You've got to be joking!’ he scoffed.	literal	0
‘I know that's what Mueller's always wanted, but Nate and the Executive Committee would never fall for that bloody empire-building game!	metaphorical	1
The regions are far too big and complex to be handled from Detroit and even if they were foolish enough to believe that they could do it more effectively— which they ca n't— they would be crazy to try.’	metaphorical	1
‘I know, Mark, I know,’ Muldoon said.	literal	0
‘But that's what they're gon na do.’	metaphorical	1
‘It will boomerang,’ the Englishman said heatedly.	metaphorical	1
‘Overseas Governments and local nationals just wo n't stand for it, particularly when they get to know what's going on.	metaphorical	1
That's one corporate plan that ca n't win, not in the long term.	metaphorical	1
‘I know, Mark.	literal	0
But they think they can run everything from Detroit and that's the way the organisation is going to be restructured.	metaphorical	1
They are working on it right now.	metaphorical	1
We will know the details in a few weeks’ time.	metaphorical	1
Couple of months at the latest.’	metaphorical	1
Mark said quietly:	literal	0
‘And how does that affect the European organisation?	metaphorical	1
‘The organisation will be wound up.	metaphorical	1
I'm taking early retirement.’	metaphorical	1
‘And me?’	literal	0
Muldoon shrugged.	literal	0
‘Not certain yet.	literal	0
But my guess is early retirement too, unless you're prepared to go back to divisional work.	metaphorical	1
Local MD perhaps?’	literal	0
The Englishman snorted.	literal	0
‘You know I ca n't go back.	literal	0
Who the hell can?	literal	0
In any case, you know as well as I do that the MDs are always American.’	metaphorical	1
‘Well, there wo n't be any European job functions, that's for sure,’ Muldoon said.	metaphorical	1
‘There'll be a direct link between Detroit and the line managers in each country, with Detroit calling the shots.’	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't they realise they're playing with political dynamite? 	metaphorical	1
Mark demanded.	literal	0
‘Mueller wo n't give a damn about the effect of a corporate plan on Europe and on individual countries.	metaphorical	1
If he wants to import vehicles or components from Taiwan or Singapore or Hong Kong into Europe, he'll go ahead and do it, regardless of the economic consequences for the European countries concerned.	metaphorical	1
The only thing you can be sure of is that US interest will always come first.	metaphorical	1
Oh, and there's one more thing you can be sure of,’ he added sourly.	metaphorical	1
‘They wo n't plan to supply the US market from imports.	metaphorical	1
You can bet your bottom dollar on that!	metaphorical	1
Jesus wept!’ he continued, hackles rising.	metaphorical	1
‘Mueller will have the power to make or break whole areas of Europe.	metaphorical	1
He's the last guy in the world who should be given such power.	metaphorical	1
The bloody man's power drunk already.’	metaphorical	1
He was angry and bitter.	metaphorical	1
‘I know,’ Muldoon agreed sadly.	literal	0
‘Then what are you and Clancy doing about it?’	metaphorical	1
‘Look, Mark,’ Muldoon said forlornly‘What's the point?	metaphorical	1
The wheels have already been set in motion.	metaphorical	1
We're not gon na change anyone's mind.	metaphorical	1
You know that.’	metaphorical	1
His tone was abject.	literal	0
‘Sorry you're takin' it so bad,’ he added miserably.	metaphorical	1
‘How else should I take it?’	metaphorical	1
Mark demanded.	literal	0
‘It's my life which is about to go down the plughole.	metaphorical	1
I'm not an American on a brief overseas assignment.	metaphorical	1
I've spent my entire working life in the European components’ business.	metaphorical	1
I've grown up in it.	metaphorical	1
It's in my blood.	metaphorical	1
I've built plants and managed them.	metaphorical	1
Designed products and marketed and sold them.	literal	0
When I was an apprentice there were two component plants in Europe, and now there are seventeen, and I've had a hand in establishing the last twelve.	metaphorical	1
What the hell do you expect me to say?	literal	0
Oh, is that what they are proposing to do?	metaphorical	1
Well bully for Mueller and the Corporation?	metaphorical	1
I'll go and collect my hat and coat!’	metaphorical	1
‘I know how you feel, Mark,’ Muldoon said sadly.	metaphorical	1
‘Do you, Pat?	literal	0
Do you?	literal	0
You're sixty-one and have been looking forward to retirement.	metaphorical	1
I'm fifty and have a long way to go.	metaphorical	1
I do n't think you can see things the way I see them.	metaphorical	1
‘Well, perhaps not,’ Muldoon agreed.	literal	0
‘But I can understand how you feel.’	metaphorical	1
The Englishman nodded and poured himself more coffee.	literal	0
‘So what's going to happen to the European Plan?’ he asked. 	metaphorical	1
‘Mueller will drive it from Detroit, with one or two amendments agreed at the EPC meeting,’ Muldoon told him.	metaphorical	1
‘What amendments?’	literal	0
‘No further plant investment in the UK.’	metaphorical	1
‘I suppose Mueller saw to that,’ Mark said sarcastically.	metaphorical	1
‘He really hates our guts!	metaphorical	1
God help the British plants under the new regime!’	metaphorical	1
Muldoon shook his head.	literal	0
‘No, it was n't that.	metaphorical	1
It was the strike at Merseyside.	metaphorical	1
That was the last straw as far as Nate was concerned.	metaphorical	1
Up until that news hit the Committee, Don had won the day with his UK Vehicle Division proposals.	metaphorical	1
But as soon as Nate heard about the latest strike, that was it.	metaphorical	1
End of story.	metaphorical	1
He instructed Mueller to phase-out vehicle manufacture in the UK.’	literal	0
Mark nodded.	literal	0
‘How did Don take it?	metaphorical	1
He was beginning to win through.’	literal	0
‘He's very upset.	literal	0
Naturally.	literal	0
It's the first time in his career he has n't come out on top.	metaphorical	1
Mueller is taking over the plan, and Don is being transferred back to the States.	metaphorical	1
Public relations job or something similar.	literal	0
Just think of it, a man of his talent and ability stooging around the media.’	metaphorical	1
‘So when's he going back to the States?’	literal	0
Mark said.	literal	0
‘It wo n't be announced for a week or so, but he's already been told.	literal	0
He'll fly out inside the month.’	metaphorical	1
‘And what do you and I do now?	literal	0
Mark enquired.	literal	0
‘Start emptying the files?’	literal	0
Muldoon made a face.	metaphorical	1
‘Afraid so.	literal	0
Klepner will take over the files and ship them back to the States.	metaphorical	1
He'll be Mueller's European components’ Planning Manager in Detroit.’	metaphorical	1
‘Klepner?’	literal	0
Mark uttered in mock astonishment.	metaphorical	1
‘The man knows nothing about Europe.	metaphorical	1
He's a novice.	metaphorical	1
A bloody charlatan!’	metaphorical	1
‘I know it sounds crazy, Mark,’ Muldoon said.	literal	0
‘But there it is.	metaphorical	1
We have no choice in the matter.	metaphorical	1
I was instructed to tell you, and I have.	literal	0
New York and Detroit will come up with an attractive separation package, you can be sure of that.	metaphorical	1
They've already told me you'll get the maximum terms permitted under British law.	metaphorical	1
The Corporation wants to do the right thing by you.’ 	metaphorical	1
The two men rose from the table together.	literal	0
‘Sure.	literal	0
We have no choice in the matter,’ said the Englishman.	metaphorical	1
‘There has to be losers as well as winners,, said the American.	literal	0
‘I guess we're both losers, Mark.’	literal	0
The Englishman returned to his own palatial office and sat with his head in hands.	literal	0
Another of his blinding headaches had developed and he felt a tight sensation in his chest, which made breathing very painful and difficult.	metaphorical	1
His secretary entered the room.	literal	0
Can I get you a coffee, Mr Sanders?	literal	0
You do n't look at all well.	literal	0
Shall I get the doctor?’	metaphorical	1
He looked up and smiled.	literal	0
‘No thank you Millie.	literal	0
I'm all right.	literal	0
Just a headache.	literal	0
Be OK in a minute.	metaphorical	1
Would love a cup of coffee though.	literal	0
‘Are you sure I should n't get a doctor?’ she asked.	metaphorical	1
‘No thank you.	literal	0
I'll be OK.	literal	0
It's only a headache.’	literal	0
Millie had her reasons for being concerned.	metaphorical	1
The petticoat Mafia at the top of the organisation always knew what was going on, often before the top executives themselves.	metaphorical	1
Millie and the secretaries of Pat Muldoon and Clancy McGillicuddy were all close friends.	metaphorical	1
They had got together over the weekend to discuss the implications of the confidential letter the two Americans had received from Randy Mueller on behalf of Nate Cocello.	metaphorical	1
Major changes were afoot which affected their respective bosses.	literal	0
By the time Mark reached home that evening, the pains in his head were excruciating.	metaphorical	1
He decided against telling Georgina about his meeting with Muldoon.	metaphorical	1
He would wait for the right moment.	literal	0
This was n't it. 	metaphorical	1
HOMICIDE	literal	0
This chapter deals with the approach of the criminal law to behaviour which causes or risks causing death.	metaphorical	1
Murder, manslaughter, and several other offences are discussed, and one recurrent issue here is whether English law responds proportionately to the different degrees of culpability manifested in cases where death is caused.	metaphorical	1
7.1 DEATH AND FINALITY	literal	0
For practical purposes, the culpable causing of another person's death may fairly be regarded as the most serious offence in the criminal calendar.	metaphorical	1
There is an argument that treason is a more serious offence, since it strikes at the very foundations of the State and its social organizations, but treason is so rare that it is surely permissible to treat homicide as the most serious form of crime.	metaphorical	1
The reason for this is not difficult to find: the harm caused by many other crimes is remediable to a degree, whereas the harm caused by homicide is absolutely irremediable.	metaphorical	1
Even in crimes of violence which leave some permanent physical disfigurement or psychological effects, the victim retains his or her life and, therefore, the possibility of further pleasures and achievements, whereas death is final.	metaphorical	1
This finality makes it proper to regard death as the most serious harm that may be inflicted on another, and to regard a person who chooses to inflict that harm as the most culpable of offenders, in the absence of some excuse or justification.	metaphorical	1
Although many deaths arise from natural causes, and many others from illnesses and diseases, each year sees a large number of deaths caused by‘accidents’, and also a number caused by acts or omissions which amount to some form of homicide in English law.	metaphorical	1
For 1987 the statistics show that there were some 20,000 accidental deaths, of which some 7,000 occurred in the home, 6,000 at work, and 5,000 on the roads.	metaphorical	1
By comparison, the number of deaths recorded as criminal homicide was 600, which includes all the  murders and manslaughters.	metaphorical	1
This figure is relatively small when compared with many American cities, but that is no cause for satisfaction.	metaphorical	1
There are still awkward questions to be confronted.	metaphorical	1
For example, are we satisfied that the 600 deaths recorded as homicide are in fact more culpable than all, or even most, of the deaths recorded as accidents?	metaphorical	1
In other words, does English criminal law pick out the most heinous forms of killing as murders and manslaughters, or are the boundaries frozen by tradition?	metaphorical	1
Another question is whether the criminal law ought not to be wider in its application to activities which carry some risk of causing death than in other spheres.	metaphorical	1
Thus, even if it would be excessive to sweep large numbers of the deaths now recorded as‘accidents’ into the law of homicide, there may be sufficient justification for creating or enforcing offences designed to ensure safe conditions of work, safe goods, safe buildings, and so on.	metaphorical	1
It was argued in Chapter 2 that the criminal law ought to spread its net wider where the potential harm is greater.	metaphorical	1
It will be seen that English law does this up to a point, and in the process seems to accept social-defence arguments as reasons for departing from several of the principles set out in Chapter 3.	metaphorical	1
7.2 REQUIREMENTS OF CRIMINAL HOMICIDE	literal	0
English law distinguishes between the offences of murder and manslaughter, as we shall see, but the two crimes do have certain common elements.	metaphorical	1
It must be proved that the defendant's act or omission caused the death of the victim within a year and a day.	metaphorical	1
(The requirements of causation in the criminal law are discussed elsewhere.)	metaphorical	1
The‘year and a day’ rule is a legacy of times when medical science was so rudimentary that, if there was a substantial lapse of time between injury and death, it was unsafe to pronounce on whether the defendant's conduct or some other event caused the death.	metaphorical	1
Nowadays the problem is quite the reverse: medical science is generally able to determine whether D's conduct caused the death, and innovations such as life-support machines mean that life can be prolonged for months and years in some instances.	metaphorical	1
In one recent case the victim of a stabbing died two and a half years after  the incident, having been kept on a life- support machine for almost the entire time.	metaphorical	1
In principle, it seems unjust that a homicide conviction should not be possible in such a case, if all the other elements can be established and only the‘year and a day’ rule stands in the way.	metaphorical	1
But the rule was confirmed by the Criminal Law Revision Committee in 1980, on the ground that a defendant should not be left in peril of a homicide conviction indefinitely.	metaphorical	1
Surely prosecutorial discretion should be enough to prevent unfair convictions years after the event.	metaphorical	1
The rule itself is out of accord with modern medical conditions and should be abolished.	metaphorical	1
DEFINING MURDER: THE INCLUSIONARY QUESTION	metaphorical	1
(a) The Procedural Context	metaphorical	1
If causing death is to be regarded as the most serious harm that can be inflicted, it would seem to follow that the most blameworthy form of homicide should result in the highest sentences imposed by the courts.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, many systems of criminal law impose a mandatory sentence for murder(or whatever the highest form of homicide is called in that system).	metaphorical	1
In some jurisdictions this is a mandatory sentence of death.	metaphorical	1
In others, such as those in the United Kingdom, it is the mandatory sentence of life imprisonment.	metaphorical	1
Why should this penalty be mandatory, and not at the discretion of the court as in other offences?	metaphorical	1
One argument in favour of the mandatory sentence of life imprisonment is that it amounts to a symbolic indication of the unique heinousness of murder.	metaphorical	1
It places the offender under the State's control, as it were, for the remainder of his or her life.	metaphorical	1
This is often linked with a supposed denunciatory effect— the idea that the mandatory life sentence denounces murder as emphatically as possible— and with a supposed general deterrent effect, in declaring that there is no mitigation of sentence available for this crime.	metaphorical	1
It might also be argued that the mandatory life sentence makes a substantial contribution to public safety.	metaphorical	1
None of these arguments is notably strong, let alone conclusive.	metaphorical	1
The mandatory penalty does indeed serve to mark out murder from other crimes, but whether the definition of murder is  sufficiently refined to capture the worst killings, and only the worst killings, remains to be discussed below.	metaphorical	1
Whether the life sentence is regarded as a sufficient denunciation in society depends on the public's perception of what life imprisonment means: if it is widely believed that it results in an average of nine years' imprisonment, the effect will be somewhat blunted.	metaphorical	1
The same applies to the general deterrent argument: its effectiveness depends on whether the penalty for murder affects the calculations of potential killers at all, and, if it does, whether life imprisonment is seen as significantly more or less severe than the alternative of a long, fixed- term sentence.	metaphorical	1
As for public protection, this depends on executive decisions with regard to release; it fails to take into account whether it is necessary for public protection to keep‘lifers’ in for so long.	metaphorical	1
This brings the discussion to a crucial point: what does the sentence of life imprisonment mean in practice, and what would be the alternative?	metaphorical	1
What it means is that the time of release from prison is determined by the Home Secretary, on the advice of the Parole Board and the Lord Chief Justice, rather than by the judge at the trial.	metaphorical	1
In procedural terms, therefore, the life sentence involves a transfer of function: normally it is the judge who determines the sentence(or at least its upper limit, since earlier release on parole may be possible), whereas a life sentence entrusts that function to the executive, who must first ascertain the opinions of the Lord Chief Justice and the trial judge.	metaphorical	1
The Home Office is not bound by those opinions, and appears to depart from them frequently.	metaphorical	1
In 1983 the Home Secretary imposed restrictions on the release of persons serving life for murders of police- and prison-officers, terrorist killings, murder during robbery, and the sadistic or sexual murder of young children, fixing a minimum of twenty years' imprisonment for these offenders.	metaphorical	1
Whatever the justifications for introducing this policy, it serves to underline the fact that sentencing in murder cases is enacted without each case being considered individually, after hearing representations from the offender's counsel, and without a sentence announced in court and subject to appeal.	metaphorical	1
At present, the executive takes decisions to release some murderers after only a few years and to keep others in prison for extremely long periods.	metaphorical	1
Should those decisions not be taken by the courts, in  the same way as other sentencing decisions?	metaphorical	1
The answer sometimes given is that murderers should be treated differently because they are particularly dangerous: anyone who chooses to kill once can choose to kill again.	metaphorical	1
But this argument will seem less persuasive when we have discussed cases of manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility: where a murder is reduced to manslaughter, the judge has a wide sentencing discretion and may, according to the facts of the case, select a determinate prison sentence, a hospital order, or life imprisonment.	metaphorical	1
Those who kill and are convicted of manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility are no less dangerous than those convicted of murder, and yet the judge has sentencing discretion in one case and not in the other.	metaphorical	1
Considerations of this kind have led the House of Lords Select Committee on Murder and Life Imprisonment to recommend the abolition of the mandatory sentence for murder.	metaphorical	1
In its place would be a sentencing discretion, which judges would use, in many cases, to mark the relative heinousness of the murder by a determinate prison sentence.	metaphorical	1
In cases where life imprisonment was thought to be the appropriate sentence, the trial judge would still specify— in open court— the number of years to be spent in prison, taking the gravity of the offence into account, and release would be determined by a judicial tribunal.	metaphorical	1
Such a reform would bring improvements in natural justice without loss of public protection.	metaphorical	1
(b) Degrees of Homicide	metaphorical	1
English criminal law has two degrees of homicide, murder and manslaughter.	metaphorical	1
Many American jurisdictions have three degrees of murder— first- degree murder, requiring premeditation, and second- and third- degree murder, covering lesser shades of culpability.	metaphorical	1
In England there has been a proposal that we should do away with all these distinctions, leaving a single offence of criminal homicide.	metaphorical	1
That proposal, if implemented, would shift almost all the decision-making in homicide cases from the trial to the sentencing stage: the  only issue of any consequence in most cases would be the sentence to be imposed, and all the distinctions now drawn at the stage of criminal liability would be reflected in the sentence alone.	metaphorical	1
The jury would have no role in most homicide cases, since a plea of guilty would be the norm.	metaphorical	1
Contrast this with the position in jurisdictions where there are three or more degrees of homicide: pleas of guilty to first- and second-degree murders would be less frequent, since there would be the possibility of argument in court(if no bargain was struck beforehand between prosecution and defence), and the defence might succeed in persuading the jury to reduce the degree of the killing.	metaphorical	1
Moreover, the borderlines between the various degrees would raise questions of law, which would provide much opportunity for legal argument and for appeals.	metaphorical	1
The result would be that killings were classified and labelled in a more refined way, but at the cost of lengthy trials and mounting legal-aid bills.	metaphorical	1
That cost is not difficult to justify where capital punishment is the penalty for first- degree murder.	metaphorical	1
Where there is no capital punishment, however, the question of how many degrees of homicide it is desirable to have calls for careful weighing of the principle of fair labelling(see Chapter 3.3(l)) against the cost and time arguments mobilised by the policy of efficient administration(see Chapter 3.3(m)).	metaphorical	1
The structure of the English law of homicide is rather strange.	metaphorical	1
Although there are two offences, murder and manslaughter, the latter includes two distinct varieties:‘voluntary’ manslaughter(killings which would be murder but for the existence of defined extenuating circumstances); and‘involuntary’ manslaughter(killings for which there is no need to prove any awareness of the risk of death being caused, but for which there is thought to be sufficient fault to justify criminal liability).	metaphorical	1
The arguments therefore tend to focus on three borderline questions: What is the minimum fault required for conviction of murder?	metaphorical	1
What conditions are needed to reduce murder to manslaughter?	metaphorical	1
And what is the minimum fault required for a conviction of manslaughter.	literal	0
(c) Requirements for Murder	literal	0
In English criminal law there are now two alternative fault requirements for murder: an intent to kill, or an intent to cause grievous bodily harm.	metaphorical	1
What do these requirements mean?	metaphorical	1
Do they extend the definition of murder too far, or are they too narrow.	metaphorical	1
Intent to kill may be regarded as the most obvious and indisputable form of fault element for murder, but to some extent that depends  on the meaning of‘intent’.	metaphorical	1
This has been the subject of a number of House of Lords decisions, and yet the definition is still not clear and settled.	metaphorical	1
Probably the most accurate statement would be that a person intends to kill if it is his or her purpose to kill by the act or omission charged, or if he or she foresees that death is practically certain to follow from that act or omission.	metaphorical	1
In this way, both purpose and foresight of practical certainty are regarded as part of the definition of intent, although there are other statements suggesting that foresight of practical or‘virtual’ certainty is merely evidence from which intent may be inferred.	metaphorical	1
How would this test be applied?	metaphorical	1
In many cases the word‘intent’ is used without elaboration, but there are some for which a full explanation of the meaning of intention is necessary.	metaphorical	1
A fairly typical set of facts is provided by Nedrick(1986), where D had a grudge against a woman and had threatened to‘burn her out’.	metaphorical	1
One night he went to her house, poured paraffin through the letter-box and on to the front door, and set it alight.	metaphorical	1
One of the woman's children died in the ensuing fire.	literal	0
When asked why he did it, D replied:‘Just to wake her up and frighten her.’	literal	0
A defence of this kind, a claim that the purpose was only to frighten and not to cause harm, requires the full definition to be put to the jury.	metaphorical	1
The question is: granted that D's purpose was to frighten, did he nonetheless realize that it was practically certain that his act would cause death or grievous bodily harm to someone?	metaphorical	1
The jury should answer this by drawing inferences from the evidence in the case and from the surrounding circumstances.	metaphorical	1
What about the alternative element in the definition, an intent to cause grievous bodily harm?	metaphorical	1
This has considerable practical importance, since this is all that the prosecution has to prove in order to obtain a verdict of guilty of murder.	metaphorical	1
It must be shown that the defendant intended(which, again, includes both purpose and awareness of practical certainty) to cause really serious injury to someone.	metaphorical	1
The House of Lords confirmed this rule in Cunningham(1981): D struck his victim on the head a number of times with a chair, causing injuries from which the victim died a week later.	metaphorical	1
D maintained throughout that he had not intended to kill, but there was evidence from which the jury could infer— and did infer— that he intended to cause grievous bodily harm.	metaphorical	1
The House of Lords  upheld D's conviction for murder: an intent to cause really serious injury is sufficient for murder, without any proof that the defendant intended, or even contemplated, the possibility that death would result.	metaphorical	1
Does the‘grievous bodily harm’ rule extend the definition of murder too far?	metaphorical	1
If the point of distinguishing murder from manslaughter is to mark out the most heinous group of killings for the extra stigma of a murder conviction, it can be argued that the‘grievous bodily harm’ rule draws the line too low.	metaphorical	1
In terms of principle, the rule requires justification because it departs from the principle of correspondence(see Chapter 5.2(a)), namely that the fault element in a crime should relate to the consequences prohibited by that crime.	metaphorical	1
By allowing an intent to cause grievous bodily harm to suffice for a murder conviction, the law is violating a general principle, turning the most serious of its offences into a constructive crime.	metaphorical	1
Why should it be necessary to‘construct’ a murder conviction out of this lesser intent?	metaphorical	1
There are arguments in favour of this: death is final, murder is the gravest crime, and there is no significant moral difference between someone who chooses to cause really serious injury and someone who sets out to kill.	metaphorical	1
No one can predict whether a serious injury will result in death— that may depend on the victim's physique, on the speed of an ambulance, on the distance from the hospital, and on a range of other medical and individual matters.	metaphorical	1
If one person chooses to cause serious injury to another, it should be presumed that he or she realizes that there is always a risk of death, and such cases show a sufficiently wanton disregard for life as to warrant the label‘murder’ if death results.	metaphorical	1
The counter-arguments, which would uphold the principle of correspondence, are that breach of that principle is unnecessary when the amplitude of the crime of manslaughter lies beneath murder, and also that the definition of grievous bodily harm includes a number of injuries which are most unlikely to put the victim's life at risk.	metaphorical	1
In the leading case of Cunningham Lord Edmund-Davies(dissenting) gave the example of breaking someone's arm: that is a really serious injury, but one which is unlikely to endanger the victim's life.	metaphorical	1
So in practice the‘grievous bodily harm’ rule goes further than the arguments of its protagonists would support.	metaphorical	1
Would it be right, then, to confine the fault element in murder to an intent to kill?	metaphorical	1
That would have the merit of simplicity, but would  it strike the right note socially?	metaphorical	1
There are powerful arguments in favour of saying that there are other killings where an intent to kill can not be established, and yet where the moral or social culpability is equal to that in most intentional killings.	metaphorical	1
Of course, one can not be adamant about whether they merit the label‘murder’, because that is a question of drawing the line between murder and manslaughter, which is not susceptible of any precise resolution.	metaphorical	1
It is hard to argue conclusively that the category of murder should be smaller or larger(unless the death penalty or a mandatory life sentence follows); it is a question of social judgment.	metaphorical	1
Let us briefly consider some of the possibilities.	metaphorical	1
The fault element for many serious offences is intent or recklessness: why should this not suffice for murder?	metaphorical	1
The question is whether all killings in which the defendant is aware of the risk of death are sufficiently serious to warrant the term‘murder’.	metaphorical	1
One answer sometimes given is that they are not, because a driver who overtakes on a bend, knowingly taking the risk that there is a car travelling in the opposite direction, should not be labelled a murderer if a collision and death happen to ensue.	metaphorical	1
This example assumes that a sympathy for motorists with overwhelm any tendency to logical analysis.	metaphorical	1
One might ask whether motorists are ever justified in knowingly taking risks with other people's lives.	metaphorical	1
Yet if the example is modified a little, so that the overtaking is on a country road at night and the risk is known to be slight, it becomes questionable whether the causing of death in these circumstances should be labelled in the same way as intentional killings.	metaphorical	1
This is not to suggest that motorists should be treated differently.	metaphorical	1
The point is rather that, even though knowingly taking risks with other people's lives is usually unjustifiable, taking a slight risk is less serious than intentionally causing death.	metaphorical	1
In discussing the boundaries of murder, we are concerned with classification, not exculpation.	metaphorical	1
To classify all reckless killings as murder might be too broad, but the point remains that some reckless killings may be thought no less heinous than intentional killings.	metaphorical	1
Can a satisfactory line be drawn here?	metaphorical	1
One approach would be to draw the line by reference to the degree of probability.	metaphorical	1
Murder is committed in those situations where D caused death by an act or omission which he knew had death as the probable or highly probable result.	metaphorical	1
A version of this test of foresight of high probability is used in several other European  countries; it was introduced into English law by the decision in Hyam v.	metaphorical	1
DPP(1975), but abandoned in Moloney(1985) on grounds of uncertainty.	metaphorical	1
A second approach is to frame the law in such a way as to make it clear that the court should make a moral judgment on the gravity of the defendant's conduct.	metaphorical	1
Section 210.2 of the Model Penal Code includes within murder those reckless killings which manifest‘extreme indifference to the value of human life’.	metaphorical	1
Scots law treats as murder killings with‘wicked recklessness’, a phrase which directs the court's attention to the circumstances of the killing.	metaphorical	1
Both the Model Penal Code test and the Scots test may be reduced to circularity, however, for when one asks how extreme or how wicked the recklessness should be, the only possible answer is:‘wicked or extreme enough to justify the stigma of a murder conviction’.	metaphorical	1
Admittedly, the Model Penal Code does contain a list of circumstances which may amount to extreme indifference, which assists the courts and increases the predictability of verdicts in a way that Scots law does not, but the essence of both approaches is that there is no precise way of describing those non-intentional killings which are as heinous as intentional killings.	metaphorical	1
Their protagonists argue that the law of murder is so important socially that derogation from the principle of maximum certainty should be allowed in favour of more accurate labelling by the courts; opponents argue that the principle of maximum certainty is needed here specifically to reduce the risk of verdicts based on discriminatory or irrelevant factors, such as distaste for the defendant's background, allegiance, or other activities.	metaphorical	1
A third, more precise formulation derives from the recommendations of the Criminal Law Revision Committee in 1980, namely, that a killing should be classified as murder in those situations where there is an intention to cause serious injury coupled with awareness of the risk of death.	metaphorical	1
Neither an intention to cause serious injury  nor recklessness as to death should be sufficient on its own, but together they restrict one another, producing a test which both satisfies the criterion of certainty and marks out some heinous but non-intended killings.	metaphorical	1
A fourth approach, adopted by English law until 1957 and still in force in many American jurisdictions, is some form of felony-murder rule: anyone who kills during the course of a felony(or, more restrictively, a serious crime of violence) or whilst resisting arrest should be convicted of murder.	metaphorical	1
Thus stated, there is no reference to the defendant's intention or awareness of the risks: the fact that D has chosen to commit rape, robbery, or another serious offence, and has caused death thereby, is held to constitute sufficient moral grounds for placing the killing in the highest category.	metaphorical	1
Plainly, this is a form of constructive criminal liability: the murder conviction is constructed out of the ingredients of a lesser offence.	metaphorical	1
Presumably the justification is that D has already crossed a high moral/social threshold in choosing to commit such a serious offence, and should therefore be held liable for whatever consequences ensue, however unforeseeable they may be.	metaphorical	1
The objections would be reduced if awareness of the risk of death was also required: in other words, if the test were the commission of a serious offence of violence plus recklessness as to death.	metaphorical	1
The effect of that test would be to pick out those reckless killings which occurred when D had already manifested substantial moral and legal culpability, and to classify them as murder.	metaphorical	1
Four alternative approaches have been described, and many others could be listed.	metaphorical	1
The point is that the traditional concepts of intention and recklessness do not, of themselves, appear to be sufficiently well focused to mark out those killings which are the most heinous.	metaphorical	1
The law must resort to some kind of moral and social evaluation of conduct if it is to identify and separate out the most heinous killings.	metaphorical	1
Many people might think that a person who causes death whilst using an unlawfully held firearm or explosives ought to be convicted of murder because there is, generally speaking, no excuse for using such dangerous equipment.	literal	0
Some of the people thus covered would be armed robbers, others would be terrorists.	metaphorical	1
The armed robber might say that he had no intention of using the firearm, that he carried it with him simply to frighten the victim, and  that it went off accidentally: if the jury believes that, should he be convicted of murder?	metaphorical	1
Property: Do n't let yourself in for trouble Choosing the right agent is essential if you want to rent your property.	metaphorical	1
Francesca Simon describes some of the pitfalls— and how to avoid them	metaphorical	1
By FRANCESCA SIMON	literal	0
DEBBIE ADAMS had to let her East End terrace house in London in a hurry when her husband was re-located to Ireland with two months' notice.	metaphorical	1
She went to a local letting agency, Landlords of 41 Roman Road, Bethnal Green, London E2, who found a tenant that day.	metaphorical	1
She also employed Landlords to manage the let.	metaphorical	1
As is common practice, Landlords kept the tenant's deposit of£650 and told Debbie they would take their entire fee of£881 up front, so she expected no rent for the first month.	metaphorical	1
But July also passed without Debbie receiving any money.	metaphorical	1
‘I phoned and said,‘Where's the money?’ and was told there were problems with the book-keeper, who would be coming in to sort it out,’ says Debbie.	metaphorical	1
‘But nothing happened and I never heard from them.’	metaphorical	1
She repeatedly phoned Landlords, but was either unable to get an answer or told that manager Howard Keizner was unavailable.	metaphorical	1
Finally, after the third month passed with no rent received, Debbie phoned the tenants, asked them to pay her directly, and sent Landlords a recorded-delivery letter, which was returned, and finally one by ordinary post stating that Landlords were no longer employed as the managing agents.	metaphorical	1
Because they had n't done any management, Debbie felt Landlords were entitled only to the 10 per cent tenant- finding fee and therefore owed her£2,400(3 months' rent plus the deposit).	metaphorical	1
In December 1991 she sued.	metaphorical	1
Landlords did n't acknowledge the writ, so in January Debbie's solicitor requested a judgment in default for the full amount plus interest and court fees, a total of£2,453.24.	metaphorical	1
Just before the court was due to hear the request her solicitor received a cheque for£2,400.	metaphorical	1
‘They had n't paid the interest and court fees, but we got back every single penny they owed.	metaphorical	1
We were lucky,’ says Debbie Adams.	literal	0
Howard Keizner, of Landlords, said:‘There were a lot of complications with this particular letting and management.’	metaphorical	1
But he declined further comment.	metaphorical	1
Last week he promised to supply us with a written explanation of the way his company had treated Debbie, but it never arrived.	metaphorical	1
Yusuf and Shabira Gulamali were less fortunate.	literal	0
They lost over£4,000 dealing with two letting agencies which closed down without paying them the rent and tenants' deposit owed on their Wembley flat.	metaphorical	1
They hired the first agent,‘Digs’, of Oxford Street, to manage as well as to let their flat.	metaphorical	1
The Gulamalis received their rent for the first three months, then nothing for four months, and were told the computer was broken, the accounts were being moved, the cheque was in the post, and so on.	metaphorical	1
‘After four months they closed down owing us£3,500,’ says Shabira.	metaphorical	1
‘Together with some other clients we took the owner to court but he escaped to Spain.’	metaphorical	1
The second time round they dealt with R. and B. Lettings in London NW10, who they instructed just to find a tenant.	metaphorical	1
The Gulamalis never received the agreement form, the tenants' deposit or the first month's rent.	metaphorical	1
‘Finally, we went to the office and they gave us a cheque, which bounced.’	metaphorical	1
The offices of R and B. Lettings are now up for sale.	metaphorical	1
‘Anyone can set up a letting agency,’ says David Galsworthy, Vice President of the National Association of Estate Agents.	metaphorical	1
‘They come and go, so it pays to deal with a member of a professional body, such as the NAEA, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors or the Incorporated Society of Valuers and Auctioneers.	metaphorical	1
In case of a dispute you can complain to the professional body, and members are bonded, which means that deposits and rent are covered in case of fraud or dishonesty.’	metaphorical	1
If you are thinking of letting your property, the following points will help to safeguard your interests:	metaphorical	1
Ask any agency you are considering using if they are a member of one of the above professional associations.	metaphorical	1
If in doubt, ask to see proof of their membership.	metaphorical	1
If, in addition to finding a tenant, the agency is managing the let, you should be paid every month, less a tenant- finding fee of between two and four weeks' rent.	metaphorical	1
The agency will keep the tenant's deposit until the tenant leaves.	metaphorical	1
If the letting agent is not managing the flat, the tenant's deposit should be given to the owner immediately.	metaphorical	1
Expect to pay a management fee of up to 15 per cent.	metaphorical	1
Some agencies deduct it every month, others want it all up front, so shop around.	metaphorical	1
If the owner is abroad, the agent will also collect tax at the standard rate of 25 per cent, which will be deducted from your monthly rent cheque.	metaphorical	1
Letting agencies should never charge tenants a finder's fee, although according to Galsworthy, many agencies do.	metaphorical	1
‘It's not ethical as they are acting for the landlord,’ he says.	metaphorical	1
The self-regulating NAEA has 10,000 members, of which 2,000 also do letting and management.	metaphorical	1
But Galsworthy believes there is a clear need for the licensing of all letting agents.	metaphorical	1
‘We want everyone to be licensed, but the Government did n't think it necessary.	metaphorical	1
Section 22 of the 1979 Estate Agents Act dealing with bonding, licensing and standards of>competency has not been brought in.	metaphorical	1
But we must have a common code and we must have licensing,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
Until then, owners and tenants beware.	metaphorical	1
Travel: Copse and robbers Christopher Somerville sees how woodland has usurped the ancient cattle thieves of the Cheviot Hills	metaphorical	1
By CHRISTOPHER SOMERVILLE	literal	0
WHEN a Charlton chief sat down to dinner in times gone by and found a spur on the table where his meal should have been, he knew the cupboard was bare once more.	metaphorical	1
His wife was telling him to saddle up and steal a fresh batch of cattle from his neighbour's herds.	metaphorical	1
The families of North Tynedale in westernmost Northumberland— Charltons and Robsons, Milburns and Dodds— were never slow to lay hands on each other's property in the lawless old days.	metaphorical	1
Here, where the Scottish border ran across the Cheviot Hills, far from civilisation,‘reiving’, or cattle-thieving, was a way of life.	metaphorical	1
Remoteness is still the keynote of this region, but a Charlton reiving party would be hard put to it these days to work up a good gallop along the upper reaches of the North Tyne River.	metaphorical	1
Since 1926 the western fringes of the Cheviots have been planted with 250 square miles of close- packed conifers, while in their depths sprawl the seven miles of the Kielder Water reservoir, Europe's largest man-made lake.	metaphorical	1
I found it hard to picture what kind of landscape those statistics might have shaped, until I opened the Ordnance Survey map to find half of it coloured green with a great blue stain in the centre.	metaphorical	1
Kielder Water is beautiful, and the Kielder trees formidably impressive in their domination of the hills.	metaphorical	1
But by the time I had turned off the road from Bellingham at Kielder village and driven up the bumpy Forest Drive to East Kielder Farm, I was longing for the sight of something other than water and trees.	metaphorical	1
Relief was at hand.	metaphorical	1
The farm stands on a spur of moorland on the northern edge of the forest, and within 10 minutes I had turned my back on the corduroy battalions of trees and was striding under a still, cloudy sky over tussocks of rush and coarse grass, with my face to the long, bare shoulders of open hillside that flank the winding shallows of the East Kielder Burn.	metaphorical	1
The footpath that runs with the burn is not one of those carefully waymarked and leafleted by the Forestry Commission.	metaphorical	1
There are few attractions for the Kielder tourist here.	metaphorical	1
The burn threads a wild and inhospitable crevice of the hills, where the wind blows cold and the sense of isolation grows with each lonely mile.	metaphorical	1
Walking here, you leave the 20th century behind on the outskirts of the forest and enter the reconstructed emptiness in which the reivers and cross-border raiders of the past could operate unhindered.	metaphorical	1
I squelched across tiny burns running in black channels of peat, and stood looking down from the hillside on to the grey roofs of Scaup Farm.	metaphorical	1
The hollow barking of a dog came from one of the stone sheds, but there was no sign of life around the buildings.	metaphorical	1
Scaup must be just about the loneliest farm in England, tucked down in the shelter of the hills with Kielder Forest's dark mass blocking its southward view and the narrowing valley of the burn filling half the sky to the north.	metaphorical	1
The East Kielder Burn divides here into Scaup Burn and White Kielder Burn.	metaphorical	1
I dropped down the hill to ford White Kielder upstream of the ruined farmstead of Kielder Head, where a line of stunted alders, shaggy with lichen, leaned over their leafless reflections in the peat-brown water.	metaphorical	1
Spring comes late to this wind bitten and rain-soaked valley.	metaphorical	1
But there were new-born lambs in the sheep pens of Scaup, and a cheery‘Hello now’ from the farmer and his wife tending them.	literal	0
Those were the last human voices I heard all day.	metaphorical	1
No-one lives up>here in the cleft of the White Kielder Burn.	literal	0
The rough land is altogether too harsh and unyielding, giving sustenance only to sheep, and to the conifers high on the flanks of East Kielder Moor and Grey Mares Knowe, immense sweeps of hillside to right and left of the valley.	metaphorical	1
The footpath on the left bank of the burn was little better than a sheep track, but there were clues to its former importance as a droving road over the hills to Byrness in Redesdale.	metaphorical	1
Large boulders stood out beside the path as grey blobs in the featureless sheets of pale grass, and flat stones had been placed as bridges across the burns, their backs hollowed by the tread of feet through the centuries.	metaphorical	1
Following these now disregarded signs of past activity along the old path, I traversed the hillside and came down to a crumbling stone sheepfold with the roofless remains of a shepherd's hut built into one wall.	metaphorical	1
The tiny single room was jammed with the mossy timbers of disused sheep pens, but the little iron fire grate that once warmed the hardy men who worked here was still set in the foot of the hut's tottering gable end, and the massive stone lintel had not yet fallen from its place above the doorway.	metaphorical	1
A dipper flew up from the burn as I emerged from the hut, his white breast flashing as he darted downstream.	metaphorical	1
Somewhere ahead in the crags of Kielderhead Moor a hawk was whistling, a piercing sound in the lonely valley, overlain for a few heart-stopping moments by the snarl of a jet.	metaphorical	1
That jarring manifestation of furious technology seemed as remote and ridiculous as a dream, as silence settled down on Kielderhead and the hawk's whistle came down from the moors.	metaphorical	1
The valley of the White Kielder Burn steepened again as I trudged north, its curves tightening.	metaphorical	1
Now the path ran through heather high above the burn, past circular sheepfolds long disused and over the stony beds of side streams where the grass hung smooth and inviting, concealing ankle-breaking drops.	metaphorical	1
A mile above the shepherd's hut the hillsides ceased their upward rolling and curved together to form a dead-end valley of broad- breasted slopes five miles from the nearest tarmac road, hidden deep in the folds of the moors.	metaphorical	1
The old drover's road turned aside here and climbed under the rock faces of White Crags to continue its lonely course over Girdle Fell and down into Redesdale.	metaphorical	1
I could have gone with it, giving myself four blissful miles of upland walking followed by as many miserable hours of fruitless searching for return transport to East Kielder Farm.	metaphorical	1
Instead I lay back in the heather and savoured the trickle of the burn and the crisp smell of peat-laden ground.	metaphorical	1
Not a sign of spring had yet penetrated this secret valley, but another month would put that right.	metaphorical	1
There were five miles of return tramping to face, but they, too, could wait awhile. 	metaphorical	1
Travel: A pilgrimage sans progress Elisabeth de Stroumillo potters round Poitou	metaphorical	1
By ELISABETH DE STROUMILLO	literal	0
PEOPLE tend to look vague when you mention Poitou.	metaphorical	1
‘Umm… not a part of France we know… where exactly is it?’	metaphorical	1
Inland of La Rochelle, you say; north of Cognac and east of Limoges.	literal	0
You sort of pass it without realising, going to the Dordogne.	metaphorical	1
‘Ah yes— Cognac.	literal	0
Nice is it?’	literal	0
Well, better than that, and one of the best things about it is the fact that so few people, except the French themselves, bother with it.	metaphorical	1
Even for France, the variety to be found is enormous.	metaphorical	1
My passion is for its numerous Romanesque churches, in most cases humbly proportioned but elevated into unique works of art by the richness of their exquisitely-sculpted decoration; to go to Poitou/Saintonge and not look at any of its churches would be like going to an African game reserve and ignoring the animals.	metaphorical	1
For serious drinkers there is the production of cognac to investigate around Cognac, plus the chance to sample pineau, the powerful local aperitif made from young wine laced with cognac.	metaphorical	1
To the north, where Poitou borders on the Vendee, shapely clumps of trees are almost the only punctuation marks on widespreading marshy landscapes; to the south it bubbles with little rolling hills.	metaphorical	1
Water is everywhere: canals, streams, small busy rivers with charming names like the Boutonne, the Mignon and the Belle, and big lazy rivers like the Sevre Niortaise and the Charente.	metaphorical	1
The lower reaches of the Sevre Niortaise are swollen with the waters that once covered the whole area, until medieval monks started to dig a spider-web of ditches to drain it.	metaphorical	1
Now the Marais Poitevin is a pleasantly low- profile tourist attraction where you can take canal-boat trips from villages that have hardly changed in the 15-odd years I've known them: Maillezais, with a huge and rather dull ruined abbey, and Coulon, where I first ate the delicious local version of moules marinieres called mouclade.	metaphorical	1
Drifting between grassy polders to which farmers have to ferry their cattle in punts, or following leafy twisting lanes marked only by rusty signs proclaiming the‘Venise Verte’, you're in an all-green, mysteriously silent world; only the occasional fisherman, twitching his rod above the algae- smothered waters, disturbs the stillness.	metaphorical	1
There is more greenery further south in the deep forest of Chize(with the fine Renaissance chateau of Dampierre-sur-Boutonne at its edge); and more marshes to the west around Rochefort and Marennes, where those mussels and oysters are raised.	metaphorical	1
One of the region's strangest townlets sits on those marshes: Brouage.	metaphorical	1
Somnolent now within its low grey walls and stumpy towers, it was once rich on salt, and powerful to boot.	metaphorical	1
It had a son to be proud of: Samuel Champlain, founder of Quebec, who was born there around 1569.	metaphorical	1
A century later, it had an adoptive daughter to weep for: 20-year-old Marie Mancini, niece of Louis XIV's minister Mazarin.	metaphorical	1
She went there when her romance with the young king was quashed for political reasons.	metaphorical	1
Months later, when Marie had departed, Louis is said to have paused nostalgically at Brouage on his way to Paris after marrying the Spanish Infanta at St Jean-de-Luz.	metaphorical	1
As you come back from Brouage towards St Jean-d'Angely— on the D18 via the canalside village of Pont-l'Abbe-d'Arnoult, with a lovely Romanesque church faade— a sign at the junction of the D122 points you to the chateau whose improbably perfect lake and gardens stare at you from posters throughout the region: La Roche Courbon.	metaphorical	1
Its most surprising room, covered from ceiling to floor in 17th-century paintings, should be a salon or library; instead, a dotty stone bathtub was set into one wall at a later date by a lady called Charlotte.	metaphorical	1
She never used it, having got some of the plumbing details wrong.	metaphorical	1
Wriggling across country on the D216 to Port-d'Envaux, you come to two more chateaux: 18th-century Panloy, flaking romantically away on its hillock overlooking a bend in the Charente and, almost next door, the much older, moated Crazannes, half- smothered in amazing flamboyant Gothic carving.	metaphorical	1
Crossing the autoroute and turning north on the D127 brings you to St Jean-d'Angely by way of the isolated church of Fenioux.	metaphorical	1
Its conically-roofed tower, hugged about by a brood of smaller roofs shaped like candle snuffers, is visible for miles.	metaphorical	1
St Jean-d'Angely is a charming little town: there are good shops as well as half-timbered houses along its narrow old streets, one spanned by an ancient bell-tower.	literal	0
There's also a Renaissance fountain, and an extremely odd conglomeration of church buildings comprising one ancient ruin, one proper church, and the skeleton faade and nave of a rather pompous and unfinished 18th-century abbey.	metaphorical	1
It makes a conveniently central hub: the Marais Poitevin village of Coulon is 27 miles to the north by the D120, which inexplicably changes its number at the top of a hill to D115.	metaphorical	1
Niort is about the same distance by the parallel N150.	metaphorical	1
Saintes, with Gallo-Roman remains, a beautiful Romanesque abbey and an atmospheric medieval quarter, is 17 miles south of St Jean; 15-odd miles to the north-west is Surgeres, all of whose public buildings, including an engagingly asymmetrical church, are within the 16th-century castle walls, scattered among beautiful gardens and parkland— perfect for picnicking.	metaphorical	1
Just under 10 miles south-west of St Jean, on the Brouage road, St-Savinien is at the upper limit of the tidal reaches of the Charente.	metaphorical	1
The villagers' main hobby seems to be fishing with peculiar, saucer- shaped nets suspended from precariously-perched bankside huts.	metaphorical	1
One fisherman waxed lyrical about the variety of fish in the river.	metaphorical	1
‘Even salmon,’ he assured me,‘but of course those are protected and must be thrown back.	metaphorical	1
Which they are… normalement.’	literal	0
Like almost every other Poitevin town and village, St-Savinien has a sweet Romanesque church; Melle, indeed has three.	metaphorical	1
But Aulnay, just over 10 miles north-east of St Jean, is probably the best, its unassuming architecture a perfect frame for the sheer artistry of the carvings round its doors and windows.	metaphorical	1
Biblical motifs recur— some art-experts call them sermons in stone, and their messages would certainly have been clear to the often-illiterate medieval pilgrims trudging to Santiago de Compostela in Spain.	metaphorical	1
But these themes are always interspersed with more fanciful ones: grimacing masks, weird animals, exuberant abstract patterns.	metaphorical	1
I think those 10th- and 11th-century sculptors were motivated not just by piety but also by a certain competitive spirit: if a church was finer than the one in the next village, more pilgrims would surely pause there.	metaphorical	1
Today's attraction- merchants are doing no more to lure 20th-century tourists than their medieval forebears did for pilgrims. 	metaphorical	1
Way of the World: Farming notes	metaphorical	1
By AUBERON WAUGH	literal	0
MANY will take it as a further surrender to Common Market bureaucracy that an inspectorate will soon be established to regulate the smell of farm manure.	metaphorical	1
In fact, with the development of deep-litter hen houses and intensive pig culture, some such controls are necessary.	metaphorical	1
The smell released by a pig or chicken farm is indescribable, and can affect 10 square miles of countryside around.	metaphorical	1
One may doubt whether modern farming has any useful purpose nowadays when everybody is on a diet.	metaphorical	1
It mostly seems to involve producing food for animals to eat, whose excrement is then collected to assist the growth of more food for animals.	metaphorical	1
Small children can sometimes be persuaded to eat cow cake in the same way that old people will eat cat food, but the chief result of all this farming was to produce huge food mountains which we could then refuse to give to the Third World, or to the socialists of Eastern Europe, in order to teach them the error of their ways.	metaphorical	1
However, there is a new plan to turn land over to wind farming.	metaphorical	1
It involves nothing more than putting up 80-foot masts all over the land.	metaphorical	1
A 1,500-acre grouse moor will generate enough electricity in this way to power a town of 6,000 people.	metaphorical	1
The farmer receives a rent of£15,000 a year and is relieved of the need to do any work for it.	metaphorical	1
All the food we need will be provided by monster underground funguses producing a regular crop of mushrooms without human assistance.	metaphorical	1
The masts may seem unsightly to those unused to them, but I am sure it is simply a matter of getting accustomed.	metaphorical	1
Cows were thought very unsightly when they were first introduced.	metaphorical	1
Nowadays, we all swoon with pleasure at the sight of a cow.	metaphorical	1
Luxury life awaits private jail inmates	metaphorical	1
By Richard Savill	literal	0
DUVETS, phonecards, hot showers and video films will greet inmates at Britain's first privately-run prison when it opens on Monday.	metaphorical	1
The Wolds, a remand centre at Brough, North Humberside, is far removed from the insanitary conditions which prevail at many jails.	metaphorical	1
The 320 inmates will be allowed out of their cells for 14 hours a day with a minimum of six hours education and 13 hours exercise a week.	metaphorical	1
The£32 million remand prison has 156 single and 72 shared cells, each with its own lavatory and washbasin.	metaphorical	1
Recreation areas have telephones and pool tables.	metaphorical	1
Nail clippers, combs, toothpaste and toothbrushes, razors and washbags are neatly laid out on tables in the cells to await the arrival of inmates, many of whom will not be carrying such items because they may not have expected to be remanded in custody.	metaphorical	1
‘The cells are luxurious compared to some of the things we put up with in the Army,’ said one staff member during a Press tour of the jail.	metaphorical	1
The prison has a medical block with 24 beds and a gym with equipment that staff said would be the envy of many council leisure centres.	metaphorical	1
Group 4 Remand Services Ltd, the security firm selected by the Home Office to manage The Wolds in a£5 million-a-year contract, likes to think of its prisoners as customers.	metaphorical	1
‘It may seem a little odd for prison staff to be looking at their prisoners as customers, but they are the direct consumers of our service,’ explained Mr Stephen Twinn, prison director, who spent 23 years in the public sector at various grades of prison governor.	metaphorical	1
The 60 male warders or‘custody officers’ as they are called, wear a dapper outfit of black blazers, grey trousers, white shirts and grey tie.	metaphorical	1
Women managers have a choice as to whether they wear trousers or a skirt.	metaphorical	1
Name badges are worn by staff. 	literal	0
Election 1992: And what can the politicians do for Meadowell?	literal	0
Probably nothing at all	literal	0
‘Joyriding’ riots propelled Tyneside's Meadowell Estate to national prominence last September.	metaphorical	1
Has the election campaign penetrated its grim streets?	metaphorical	1
By MARTYN HARRIS	literal	0
AT THE drop-in centre on South Meadowell, Labour candidate Paddy Cosgrove has dropped in to meet the people— mostly fat ladies in shellsuits with laps full of chips.	metaphorical	1
‘You all know me,’ says Paddy, and a fat lady with good timing says,‘I do n't know you.	metaphorical	1
Never seen you in me life.’	metaphorical	1
On the floor a toddler peels more chips from a congealed, bluish mass and feeds them to a baby.	literal	0
Another digs the cream from the centre of a pink fancy and smears it in his hair.	metaphorical	1
Paddy Cosgrove, councillor and barrister, in candidates' pinstripes, sits tensely on the edge of his plastic chair.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm a regular visitor to this estate…’	metaphorical	1
‘Who does he say he is?’ says a second fat lady.	literal	0
‘That Liberal, Paddy Ashgrove…’	metaphorical	1
‘He's better looking on TV…’	metaphorical	1
‘He's only come because the press are here,’ says the first fat lady.	literal	0
And Paddy Cosgrove blushes.	literal	0
Political consciousness is low on the Meadowell Estate.	metaphorical	1
Turnout at the last election was around 50 per cent, and with the thinning of the electoral roll brought by the poll tax, will be even lower this time.	metaphorical	1
They are mostly Labour voters but several confuse their Labour candidate with the leader of the Liberal Democrats.	metaphorical	1
Very few know their MP is a Conservative, and hardly anyone that his name is Neville Trotter, defender of a slender 2,500 majority.	metaphorical	1
By most measures Meadowell is the worst council estate in Britain, and probably the most notorious since the riots last September, which followed the deaths of joyriders Colin Atkins and Dale Robson in a police chase.	metaphorical	1
In fact Meadowell is an Elastoplast name like Sizewell, invented in the 1970s to disguise what was already a running sore.	metaphorical	1
When built in 1938 it was The Ridges, which is still what they call it locally— a slum clearance project on the north bank of the Tyne, 10 miles east of Newcastle.	metaphorical	1
Its first inhabitants were shipyard and fishquay workers from the riverside towns of North Shields and Wallsend, who moved happily from their tumbledown terraces to these fine new houses with inside toilets and gardens.	metaphorical	1
Many, like Ronnie Collyer, a retired shipyard worker, still live here and are still proud of the place.	literal	0
All the trouble, says Ronnie, is down to‘a few families who doa n't keep their young’ uns in order.	metaphorical	1
And then the media coom down and blow everything up.’	metaphorical	1
He has polished shoes, a close shave, and too much pride for a free drink.	metaphorical	1
‘It's a canny place The Ridges, with plenty of good folk.’	metaphorical	1
But something was wrong from the start.	metaphorical	1
Some say it was the importing of whole streets of fighting families from the fishquays, with their dockland diversions of prostitution, drug-dealing and handling.	metaphorical	1
Others say it was the shortage of pubs, shops, churches, transport and police stations.	literal	0
By the 1950s, The Ridges was the criminal ghetto of Newcastle, and by the 1970s a costly council manicure job had turned it into a free-fire zone.	metaphorical	1
Paths and boundaries vanished, allowing the tides of street life to wash right up to the doorsteps.	metaphorical	1
Joyriders used front lawns to practise their handbrake turns.	literal	0
Car theft became so common that private cars virtually disappeared from the area.	literal	0
Shops like greengrocers and chippies, with pitiful cash takings, were routinely subjected to armed robberies with shotguns, balaclavas— the whole bit.	metaphorical	1
When I ask the fat ladies at the drop-in centre what is the one thing that would do most to improve the estate they say‘get rid of the kids’ and they are only half joking.	metaphorical	1
The age structure of Meadowell means it is awash with teenagers, whose only pastimes are having babies and body-building.	metaphorical	1
Do your husbands come here?	literal	0
I ask, and they all laugh.	literal	0
‘The men are all useless— sitting indoors if there's trouble in the street.	metaphorical	1
It's women have to go out and deal with it.’	metaphorical	1
By the time of the riots a quarter of all houses on the estate were boarded up and burned out by infant petrol bombers.	metaphorical	1
Unemployment was 80 per cent on some streets.	metaphorical	1
In Meadowell Primary, which has 232 children, every one was receiving a clothing grant.	metaphorical	1
The area had effectively been abandoned by the authorities, a fact which became clear during the riot itself, when police waited five hours to enter the estate and put down the disturbances.	metaphorical	1
‘And there were never more than a few dozen ringleaders,’ Bob Mather, a local butcher, tells me.	literal	0
‘I was stood outside me shop all night, and most were no more than kids.’	literal	0
Eight months on and little has changed— if anything it is rather worse.	metaphorical	1
Unemployment is up another 17 per cent; more houses and shops are boarded up; burglaries and joyriding continue— and if there is less ram-raiding it is only because 50 or so of the hardest cases are still behind bars.	metaphorical	1
A food co-op which tried to replace the burned-out shops has been closed after several break-ins, and even the drop-in centre is burgled weekly, according to project worker Sheila Auld.	metaphorical	1
There is a new phone box, ripped from the wall and lying on the floor of her office to prove it.	literal	0
Meadowell has even discovered a new martyr in the shape of one Willy Hunter, a local hard nut awaiting trial for murder, and allegedly the victim of a police frame-up.	metaphorical	1
‘Free Willy Hunter’ say the graffiti, next to the old, fading graffiti for Dale Robson and Colin Atkins.	metaphorical	1
My friend Kevin, muscleman and minicab driver, says the lads would be out rioting for Willy now if it was n't tipping down with rain the whole time.	metaphorical	1
A few things have been achieved, I suppose.	metaphorical	1
There are some posh flats going up at neighbouring Royal Quays which will provide building jobs:‘It's Sun City in the middle of Bantustan,’ a Labour councillor said to me.	metaphorical	1
The Cheviot housing association is slowly taking over property in South Meadowell.	metaphorical	1
A new police station is to be built.	literal	0
The government sponsored Meadowell Initiative makes noises in the north of the estate— but does pitifully little, painfully slowly.	metaphorical	1
North Tyneside council says it is too starved of funds by central government to do much.	metaphorical	1
Tory ministers, like Michael Heseltine who visited Meadowell last November, say the cash shortages are due to council profligacy and bad management.	literal	0
MP Neville Trotter is a pear-shaped Tory with pear-shaped vowels who has little appeal to the people of Meadowell, and a dwindling appeal in the middle-class suburbs where unemployment is also climbing.	metaphorical	1
Paddy Cosgrove, his likely replacement, is a council hack of 21 years standing and ideal backbench fodder, though it is hard to imagine him leading a crusade for Meadowell.	metaphorical	1
When I ask the people of the estate what they want from this election some say they want Cheviot to rebuild it and others that it would be better grassed over.	metaphorical	1
Some say they should bring back hanging; others say it is the politicians they should hang; but most say there is nothing anybody can do at all.	metaphorical	1
General Election: N Trotter(C) 25,113, P Cosgrove(Lab) 22,530, D Mayhew(L/All) 10,446.	literal	0
Con Maj: 2,583.	literal	0
Sit, they said, but he would n't This week John Major began to appear on a different kind of box.	metaphorical	1
In the last of his series on the leaders, Frank Johnson reports	metaphorical	1
By FRANK JOHNSON	literal	0
WE WERE in the West Country.	literal	0
The Prime Minister was on his soapbox.	metaphorical	1
Just up the road, at Langport in Somerset, was the birthplace of Walter Bagehot(1826–1877), although as he directed his microphone at Liberal Democrat hecklers John Major had other things on his mind.	metaphorical	1
The relevance is that Bagehot was the first political commentator.	literal	0
The travelling chaos of a modern party leader's election entourage had carried Major within a few miles of the home of the founder of the profession, a few of whose more troublesome contemporary practitioners are said to have caused him much irritation over the 16 months of his premiership.	metaphorical	1
‘A Liberal?	literal	0
He's admitted to being a Liberal!’	metaphorical	1
Major cried, jabbing a finger in the direction of one heckler.	metaphorical	1
The man had a Liberal Democrat rosette pinned to his cap.	metaphorical	1
He was also carrying an orange poster on a pole, urging a vote for the local Liberal Democrat candidate.	metaphorical	1
Therefore the admission which the Prime Minister wrung from him could hardly be said to have been grudging.	metaphorical	1
But, like all the best soapbox orators, Major had prepared his repartee in advance.	metaphorical	1
‘I knew there was one here,’ he continued, meaning Liberal Democrats.	literal	0
There were, in fact, about a score.	metaphorical	1
Then came the passage, which appeared on the television news that evening and in the papers the next day, about the Liberal Democrats being the Trojan horse that would let Labour in.	metaphorical	1
There were also some lines intended for local consumption:‘Higher petrol prices from the Liberal Democrats… that's not gon na help a rural area…	metaphorical	1
’ What would Bagehot have made of him?	metaphorical	1
Like the heckler, he was a Liberal.	literal	0
There the similarity ends, since judging from his writings Bagehot was a roaring snob, whereas judging from his heckles the heckler was not.	metaphorical	1
More to the point, it was Bagehot who said:‘A constitutional statesman is in general a man of common opinions and uncommon abilities.’	metaphorical	1
The statesman to whom he was referring was Peel.	metaphorical	1
A political commentator of our own day, Paul Johnson, quoted it not long after Major became Prime Minister to suggest that it was also true of him.	metaphorical	1
But is it still?	literal	0
B AGEHOT'S phrase comes in a passage in which he appears to propound the dispiriting theory that a politician, if he wants to get anywhere, must appeal to‘the average man’.	metaphorical	1
The average man is‘a cool, common person, with a considerate air, with figures in his mind, with his own business to attend to, with a set of ordinary opinions arising from and suited to ordinary life.	metaphorical	1
He ca n't bear novelty or originalities…	metaphorical	1
Original theories give trouble’.	metaphorical	1
Bagehot goes on to say of Peel:‘From a certain peculiarity of intellect and fortune, he was never in advance of his time.	metaphorical	1
Of almost all the great measures with which his name is associated, he attained great eminence as an opponent before he attained even greater eminence as their advocate.’	metaphorical	1
That last sentence has more to do with Kinnock than with Major.	metaphorical	1
It is also a warning to all hack Tories who think that it is a telling blow against Kinnock to keep on pointing out that he has reversed his opinions about unilateral nuclear disarmament, British membership of the EC, or anything else.	metaphorical	1
But the most striking thing about Bagehot's essay on Peel, in the light of the last full week of this election campaign, is that it simply does not apply to Major at all.	metaphorical	1
Common opinions were what got Major into difficulties in the first place.	metaphorical	1
Between his becoming Prime Minister and his party's fall in the polls about 10 days ago, Major did nearly everthing that common opinion wanted him to do.	metaphorical	1
This was true of what he did about both high policy and low politics.	metaphorical	1
For example, on high policy common opinion said that there was nothing for it but to stay in the ERM.	metaphorical	1
He stayed in, and the recession worsened.	metaphorical	1
In low politics, common opinion— no less common for being expensively hired by Conservative Central Office— encouraged him in the belief that he should fight much of the election sitting down.	metaphorical	1
He did so, and he looked like the questioner in the studio audience rather than the answerer.	literal	0
The result was Wobbly Week, the second week of the campaign.	metaphorical	1
But last Saturday Major climbed on to that soapbox in Luton.	metaphorical	1
Until then, he had been that most inhuman of creatures— the public figure described by others as‘very human’.	metaphorical	1
Now he really was human— unscripted, jokey, even a bit passionate.	literal	0
The jubilant word from Kinnock's camp was that Major was behaving more like an opposition leader than a prime minister.	metaphorical	1
But there seemed nothing wrong with the head of government appearing to be the challenger on the hustings.	metaphorical	1
President Truman did so in a campaign which no-one expected him to win, and he won.	metaphorical	1
It is justified if the head of government is challenging something powerful.	metaphorical	1
Kinnock complains of the alleged power of the Tory tabloid press, but he has powers on his side too.	metaphorical	1
Ninety per cent of his party's cash comes from the unions, which will expect a return.	metaphorical	1
The British people have in the past found them rather more powerful than the corporations which are popularly supposed to finance the Conservative party.	metaphorical	1
Then there are all those schoolteachers, dons, television producers, writers on arts pages and members of the agitating classes who want a Labour win in order to impose Political Correctness.	metaphorical	1
That is to say, they will have what the Jesuits once attached such importance to: power over young or impressionable minds.	metaphorical	1
As the week went by, Major rejected common opinion about two other large subjects: proportional representation and Scottish devolution.	metaphorical	1
He hardened his opposition to both, despite the fact that his own party chairman had once favoured the first, and vocal forces within his Scottish party were in support of the second.	metaphorical	1
E VEN at this late hour, psephology, demographics and luck suggest that the Tories could still emerge as the biggest single party in a hung Parliament.	metaphorical	1
Is it possible that Major would rather go into opposition— with the dangers that would mean for his continued leadership of the Conservative party— than offer PR and Scottish devolution to the Liberal Democrats?	metaphorical	1
If so, we are dealing with a more Quixotic, romantic or principled figure than some of us used to think.	metaphorical	1
Once that soapbox came out, Major campaigned as if he would now do and say what he really thought.	metaphorical	1
Was it too late?	literal	0
From Central Office, and from around his entourage, came the unmistakable signs of fair- weather friends preparing to detach themselves from blame for defeat.	metaphorical	1
And then, on Thursday morning, when Major's election tour reached the Daily Mail Ideal Home Exhibition, Sir David English, the paper's editor, was not there to greet him.	metaphorical	1
A junior spin doctor is reported to have muttered, though admittedly out of my earshot:‘We've been snubbed.’	metaphorical	1
Not Sir David!	literal	0
Some in the profession of political commentating would opt for Bagehot as their formative influence, but mine has long been Sir David— a founder of biased Tory journalism.	metaphorical	1
His lack of humbug about political balance has always made him more honest than all the employees of BBC Current Affairs awaiting with glee the Kinnock years.	metaphorical	1
Eventually, Sir David's office issued a statement about the Prime Minister.	metaphorical	1
Normally, a prime minister's office would issue a statement about an editor.	metaphorical	1
But Major makes a point of not being grand, and with Sir David it is the other way about.	metaphorical	1
‘Sir David English was not informed of the visit and in consequence had no plans to attend the Ideal Home Exhibition that day,’ the official statement announced.	metaphorical	1
Faith in Sir David's leadership was restored.	metaphorical	1
Scientists click over a way to save dolphins	metaphorical	1
by Greg Neale Environment Correspondent	literal	0
HUNDREDS of thousands of dolphins could be saved from death thanks to pioneering work by British scientists.	metaphorical	1
They believe they have found a cheap, practical means of preventing dolphins entangling themselves in monofilament drift fishing nets— the‘walls of death’ believed to be responsible for killing large numbers of dolphins off Cornwall this year.	metaphorical	1
But their work is hampered by lack of money.	metaphorical	1
So far they have received nothing from the Government, little EC assistance and are running out of funds donated by individuals and industry.	metaphorical	1
The researchers, headed by Dr Margaret Klinowska, a Cambridge biologist, and David Goodson, an expert on acoustic engineering at Loughborough University, say new data shows that plastic sound reflectors to fishing nets can warn dolphins of hazards.	metaphorical	1
Data to be published shortly draws on experiments including observations of Freddy, the dolphin that has been living off the Northumbrian coast for four years.	literal	0
Using equipment donated by Racal, the scientists have analysed recordings of the‘clicking’ dolphins make while hunting.	metaphorical	1
Observations of Freddy led them to conclude that dolphins use sonar while hunting.	metaphorical	1
They emit an intense, broad-band‘click’ or pulse of sound.	metaphorical	1
Echoes of the signal alert them to possible prey, at ranges up to 80–90 metres in shallow waters.	metaphorical	1
Mr Goodson, who became interested in the sonar capacity of dolphins after hearing one while swimming off the Welsh coast, has experimented with various shapes of sound reflectors.	metaphorical	1
The most promising is eliptical, about 3½in long.	metaphorical	1
The theory is that its internal air pocket will‘bounce’ back the dolphin's sonar signal, regardless of the direction of approach.	metaphorical	1
Last autumn, Dr Klinowska, Mr Goodson and their team put the theories into practice.	metaphorical	1
In the Moray Firth, they placed a‘headline barrier’, from which they had suspended reflectors at two-metre intervals.	metaphorical	1
The movement of dolphins around the barrier was observed, using electronic equipment to monitor sonar activity.	metaphorical	1
‘The results exceeded our expectations,’ said Mr Goodson.	literal	0
Dolphins swimming near the barrier altered their behaviour to avoid it, the result, the scientists believe, of them detecting sonar echoes from the reflectors.	metaphorical	1
Dr Klinowska said that, although it was necessary to be cautious about the findings, a combination of reflector devices and some modification of fishing gear might reduce deaths.	metaphorical	1
But the Moray Firth experiments were only possible after the naturalist Dr David Bellamy helped secure a donation from the Co-operative Wholesale Society.	metaphorical	1
‘Our work is being delayed simply through the lack of funding,’ said Dr Klinowska.	metaphorical	1
The scientists hope to raise£100,000 through an appeal by Windsor Safari Park.	metaphorical	1
Donations can be made to the Dolphin Research Project c/o Windsor Safari Park, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 4AY.	metaphorical	1
The Arts: Courtroom drama in the case of the bogus Picassos	metaphorical	1
By MICHAEL PYE	literal	0
SUPPOSE you have a print by Picasso, Dali, Miro or Chagall, or sold one in the past few years: you have a special interest in a Brooklyn courtroom this week.	metaphorical	1
Hilda Amiel, alleged to be the very godmother of fake art, has been arraigned for her part in what the US Attorney calls the‘single largest worldwide source and distribution network of bogus prints’.	metaphorical	1
(She pleads not guilty.)	literal	0
The Feds claim to have seized 75,000 prints at the family firm, known with a nice irony as Original Artworks Ltd.	metaphorical	1
They say there were blank sheets bearing Dali's signature alongside 20,000 fake Miros and 650 fake Chagalls.	metaphorical	1
The Picassos, according to Sotheby's valuer, were‘sloppy’.	metaphorical	1
Amiel is the first reputable dealer to be prosecuted, but more than 100 others as well as auction houses across America are now under subpoena to explain what they thought they were selling.	metaphorical	1
And the prints have been sold across Europe— there's been one arrest in Denmark already— including Britain.	literal	0
The art world is very close to its own Watergate.	metaphorical	1
THE St Petersburg National Opera(the‘National’), Chaliapin's company, is in New York for the first time.	literal	0
The management of the Kirov, that other opera house in St Petersburg, are furious.	metaphorical	1
The core of the problem is simple: the National was invited to New York only last November, and the Kirov is planning to tour this summer.	metaphorical	1
Both are presenting the great Russian warhorses, Boris Godunov and The Queen of Spades.	metaphorical	1
Both companies expected to bring the bass Vladimir Ognovenko to sing Boris and the mezzo-soprano Irina Bogatcheva.	metaphorical	1
(Russian singers do n't spend their lives with one company any more.)	metaphorical	1
But Kirov's management, Satra Arts International, felt badly upstaged.	metaphorical	1
Under pressure from Satra, Kirov told singers to choose between the companies.	metaphorical	1
The National's Boris Godunov was built around Ognovenko; he had to stay home.	metaphorical	1
The mezzo Irina Bogatcheva, wife of the National's artistic director Stanislav Gaudassinksy, agreed to limit her roles.	literal	0
But that was n't enough.	metaphorical	1
For daring to come at all, she was cut from the Kirov team.	metaphorical	1
She went home in tears at the weekend.	metaphorical	1
But her husband did have consolation on Saturday, as we talked over Scotch and Peking duck: the sound of American cheers for his robust version of Boris Godunov.	metaphorical	1
LA MAMA ETC— for‘Experimental Theatre Company’— is a tiny cauldron of a theatre on the Lower East Side, the creation of the extraordinary Ellen Stewart.	metaphorical	1
Like any house that's demanding, idiosyncratic, small and truly experimental, it's in trouble—$150,000 in the red, with the serious prospect of closing.	metaphorical	1
La Mama is the heart of the New York theatre avant-garde, a true anti-institution.	metaphorical	1
But it has distinguished alumni: Billy Crystal, who talked between the Oscars, and Oscar contenders Bette Midler and Nick Nolte among them.	metaphorical	1
You might expect them to rush to La Mama's aid.	metaphorical	1
But Stewart snaps:‘I do n't want to be disappointed so I'm not going to ask for their help.’	metaphorical	1
Instead, she's been saved for the moment by an old-fashioned storyteller, worth millions— George Lucas of Star Wars.	literal	0
And virtue is rewarded.	metaphorical	1
Nolte, Midler, and Crystal do n't even win Oscars.	literal	0
Lucas did.	literal	0
IN THE crusade to make everyone guilty about everything, there is a new technique: tetranalysis, the study of colour, sound, motion and form in movies.	metaphorical	1
The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People tried it to scourge Hollywood; but Hollywood just giggled.	metaphorical	1
The NAACP denounces The Silence of the Lambs because Hannibal the Cannibal shares his name with an African general, and the killer is Buffalo Bill(yes, that's a white man's nickname, but the buffalo, NAACP explain patiently, is associated with Native Americans).	metaphorical	1
It gets worse.	literal	0
In Bugsy, limos are black, cars are red and taxis are yellow; all are ominous objects, the NAACP says, in colours associated with racial minorities.	metaphorical	1
Political correctness, just as we suspected, will be perfectly grey. 	metaphorical	1
The Arts: In the name of charity	metaphorical	1
By LEWIS JONES	literal	0
CHARITY is a divine attribute, but we are enjoined to give forgetfully lest we fall into the absurd error of mistaking ourselves for gods.	metaphorical	1
The perils of ignoring this advice were well illustrated by Angel of Bengal(C4), the True Stories documentary by Anna Raphael which was by turns hilarious and enraging.	metaphorical	1
The‘angel’ in question was an American woman who calls herself Rytasha.	metaphorical	1
Apart from a particularly vicious-looking nose-job and alarming turquoise-coloured contact lenses, Rytasha is rather beautiful, and in the 1970s, when she went by the name of Ricki, she was a successful model(she began life as Maxine Shenkman).	metaphorical	1
An earlier film by Raphael, The Persuaders(1986), charted the transformation of Ricki into Rytasha, which occurred at the Hare Krishna Temple in London, and her uneasy relationship with her guru there.	metaphorical	1
It would have been interesting to have seen the two films together.	metaphorical	1
Since 1986 Rytasha has broken away from her guru and set up on her own with a charity called Food Relief International, which raises money from the fiercely competitive matrons of Palm Beach and distributes it to the starving people of Bangladesh.	metaphorical	1
‘She adaws Bangladesh,’ gushed Rytasha's mother— the fiercest matron of them all, rejoicing in the improbable title of Baroness Thea von Theilheimer Shenkman.	metaphorical	1
She went on to list her daughter's achievements:‘She put in an irritation system…	metaphorical	1
’ With no trace of a smile or a blush the baroness quickly corrected herself—‘an irrigation system’— but the slip was a telling one, and I'm sure they would have appreciated it in Bangladesh.	metaphorical	1
The villagers of Ramsala, recipients of the Palm Beach dollars, explained to the cameras that they desperately needed a clinic.	metaphorical	1
‘We told her that a mud hut would do, but she said no, she'd build something pukka.’	metaphorical	1
A pukka building was duly erected, but its medical function has somehow been indefinitely postponed.	literal	0
It is devoted instead to the worship of the charitable Rytasha, who is not content simply to hand over the cash but insists, in an unfortunate hangover from her Hare Krishna days, on posturing as‘a spiritual master’.	metaphorical	1
The villagers seemed unimpressed, but were given no choice in the matter.	metaphorical	1
Nor could the vaunted irrigation scheme be described as an unqualified success.	metaphorical	1
The money ran out before the scheme's completion, and the villagers found themselves obliged to borrow the rest.	metaphorical	1
They begged Rytasha for reimbursement, but none was forthcoming, and for the want of a few hundred pounds the village lost its crop for the year.	metaphorical	1
‘Now what are we supposed to do?’ asked one of them.	literal	0
‘Are we to sell our cattle or our land?’	literal	0
The most irritating thing about Rytasha— and there were many— was that, though she does not speak their language, she presumes to teach them a spurious form of their own religion.	metaphorical	1
‘One thing we do n't need in this subcontinent,’ Professor Rokeya Kabeer observed,‘is spiritual guidance— we have gurus a dime a dozen.’	metaphorical	1
They are far too civilised for that sort of thing in Bangladesh, but I kept thinking wistfully of T. S. Eliot's lines in Sweeney Agonistes about‘a nice little white little missionary stew’.	metaphorical	1
City Comment: There's spring in the step of the stock market	metaphorical	1
AT LEAST last Friday's post-election stock market surge was not a one-day special offer for the professionals only.	metaphorical	1
Prices have remained high-indeed the FT-SE index has risen another 55 points since then— allowing even the most passive of private investors, including unit trust holders, to take advantage of the market.	metaphorical	1
The 10 p.c. gain since election day is looking increasingly sustainable.	metaphorical	1
It is not that prospects for earnings are 10 p.c. better that they were in the middle of last week, but it is possible to argue that prospects are that much better than they would have been under a Labour government and that the market was discounting such a result.	metaphorical	1
The FT-SE failed to hold its gains yesterday but shortly after opening it was only six points away from last September's previous record closing level.	metaphorical	1
Wall Street has been hitting new peaks this week too, which has given support to the London market(and even Japan's Nikkei index, in a typically erratic period, has gained nearly 800 points while London added its 245) but London has real strengths of its own.	metaphorical	1
The City view is that the fall in corporate earnings has stopped and that next year's increase could be around 15 p.c.	metaphorical	1
The market's price- earnings multiple was 16 last night but it would drop below 14 if that increase in earnings really happens.	metaphorical	1
The increase will not be matched by dividend rises— too many companies have been paying more than they could afford over the past two years and need to repair their reserves and ratios— but 7 p.c. growth looks reasonable.	metaphorical	1
The market yield, a historic 4¾ p.c., could return back above 5 p.c., therefore giving basic-rate taxpayers a real return with the prospect of real growth too.	metaphorical	1
Not all problems have gone away of course: yesterday's£6.4 billion public sector borrowing requirement is not much higher than expectations, but it is almost as large as the deficit for the previous 11 months and— with this year's deficit forecast to be double last year's— shows why the Bank of England so eagerly sold£2 billion or more of gilts on election night and why it needs a regular stream of massive sales.	metaphorical	1
The change in employment may not always be so favourable as yesterday's either, but the market is now starting to feel bullish and looking for a FT-SE of 3,000 by next year.	metaphorical	1
City: Lloyd's members fail in bid to protect cash fund	metaphorical	1
By Karen Cooper	literal	0
MORE than 800 Lloyd's of London members on syndicates managed by the loss-making Gooda Walker agency have failed in their legal attempt to prevent Lloyd's and members' agents from drawing down their funds.	metaphorical	1
Michael Freeman, the solicitor who advised the members on court action, said yesterday:‘This will cause the most dreadful hardship.	metaphorical	1
There is going to be a great deal of pain in the market place now.’	metaphorical	1
In an earlier than expected Commercial Court judgment, Mr Justice Saville found that the members had not produced enough evidence of irregularities in the‘LMX spiral’, which sends catastrophe risks swirling round the market to stop the usual process of calling on cash deposits to make good syndicate losses.	metaphorical	1
However, he suggested there was perhaps a need to look into the system more closely.	metaphorical	1
Costs were awarded to the members' agents but not to Lloyd's.	metaphorical	1
The members, many of whom are unable to fulfil the latest£101m cash call due on March 2 to cover 1989–90 losses on syndicates were seeking an interim injunction to stop members' agents and Lloyd's dipping into their security.	metaphorical	1
They were challenging the‘pay now sue later’ principle at Lloyd's, which says names should pay cash calls first and fight them later.	metaphorical	1
Lloyd's chairman David Coleridge welcomed the judgment.	metaphorical	1
‘We have every sympathy with those who have made substantial underwriting losses in recent years but Lloyd's owes its first duty to policyholders with valid claims which must be met,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
Mr Freeman said an appeal was‘most unlikely, because we are not going to get any more evidence.’	metaphorical	1
Earlier this month, preliminary findings from an investigation by Kenneth Randall found that the Gooda Walker agency may have overstated its syndicates' profits between 1981 and 1988 through the use of time and distance policies, about which it had failed to inform its auditors in at least one syndicate.	metaphorical	1
Peter Nutting, who led the association of Outhwaite members to a succesful settlement, said he sympathised with Gooda Walker names, but‘if the names were not going to pay these calls, who did they think was going to pay them?’	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile, members who were not part of the£116m Outhwaite out-of-court settlement have voted to press their claims for compensation through the 1992 Outhwaite Names Association.	metaphorical	1
It plans to issue a protective writ but is hoping to achieve a settlement.	metaphorical	1
‘The NHS is not for sale’ Virginia Bottomley talks to George Jones in her first interview since joining the Cabinet	metaphorical	1
By GEORGE JONES	literal	0
THE NEW Health Secretary, Mrs Virginia Bottomley, set herself an ambitious target yesterday— to‘take the politics’ out of the National Health Service.	metaphorical	1
But her desire to provide a period of stability for nearly one million people employed by the NHS is coupled with a fierce determination to maintain the momentum of reform, with the overwhelming majority of hospitals becoming self-governing trusts by the mid-1990s.	metaphorical	1
Labour sought to turn the general election into a referendum on the NHS, asking voters for a mandate to reverse the changes.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Bottomley is convinced the Tory victory provides the opportunity to entrench the reforms— and to give doctors, nurses and managers the confidence to make them work.	metaphorical	1
In her first full interview since being appointed Health Secretary, she said the election result, and Mr Major's unequivocal commitment to the NHS, had finally‘nailed the lie’ about privatisation of health care.	metaphorical	1
‘The NHS is not for profit.	literal	0
It is not for sale.	literal	0
It will continue to be true to its founding principles, available to all and free at the point of delivery,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
She recalled a promise made by Mr Major when he became Prime Minister: that he would work for a nation at ease with itself.	metaphorical	1
‘I want to see a health service at ease with itself— optimistic and confident about its essential work.	metaphorical	1
Health is something which touches every individual and family in the country,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
‘But there must be changes.	literal	0
An organisation that does n't change fossilises.	metaphorical	1
Health needs to develop and alter.’	literal	0
By next year, she is confident that two thirds of hospitals will have become self-governing trusts within the NHS.	metaphorical	1
She pledged that the Government would safeguard those that did not opt for trust status, but she expected this to be a minority.	metaphorical	1
The Government will also encourage more family doctors to hold budgets to‘buy’ services for patients, and is looking at ways to enable smaller practices to team up to secure the>advantages of fund holding.	metaphorical	1
The election result has given the Conservatives five years in which to press ahead with the changes.	metaphorical	1
Most people are likely to judge the reforms on how long they have to wait for treatment— the issue behind the‘Jennifer's ear’ controversy during the election campaign.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Bottomley stressed her commitment to the Patient's Charter, which has already eliminated almost all waits of more than two years for NHS operations.	metaphorical	1
The next step is to ensure that, from March, no one should have to wait more than 18 months for a hip or knee replacement or a cataract operation.	metaphorical	1
A national standard will also be set for outpatient waiting times.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Bottomley's first big test as Health Secretary will come this summer with the annual public spending round, which will be conducted against a background of concern over high Government borrowing and pressure from the Tory Right for public spending cuts.	metaphorical	1
The Conservative manifesto contained a commitment to increase, year by year, the level of‘real resources’ committed to the NHS— though it put no figure on the extra money to be allocated.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Bottomley, representing‘caring Conservatism’, will face Mr Michael Portillo, the new Treasury Chief Secretary, who is equally keen to establish his Right- wing credentials by demonstrating he can keep keep a tight grip on the public purse strings.	metaphorical	1
She acknowledged that there could be difficult times ahead.	metaphorical	1
‘It will always be the case that the holder of my office will need to fight the corner of the health service and there will always, inevitably, be more than we can do.’	metaphorical	1
But she stressed there would be no let-up in the search for greater efficiency.	metaphorical	1
As well as fighting for more money, her task was to ensure that‘every last pound’ was spent as effectively as it could be.	metaphorical	1
Her priorities include giving more encouragement to medical research; emphasis on preventive health to make the NHS a‘health as well as a sickness service’, with the publication shortly of new national targets for reducing deaths from heart disease and cancers; and pressing ahead with care in the community.	metaphorical	1
As a former psychiatric social worker, Mrs Bottomley is determined to improve standards of care for mentally ill and handicapped people.	metaphorical	1
‘It is not acceptable to have people who require a home confined to long-stay institutions when they could be in more domestic settings.	metaphorical	1
That is a real challenge,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Bottomley's rise to the top has been swift, with only four years between her first ministerial post and a seat at the Cabinet table.	metaphorical	1
But she bridles at suggestions that the inclusion of two women— Mrs Gillian Shephard at the Department of Employment and herself— has excluded more able men from the Cabinet.	metaphorical	1
‘Prime Ministers always have to consider balance in the Cabinet— and at least we now have the same number of women as old Etonians in John Major's team,’ she said. 	metaphorical	1
a Non-punitive Paradigm of Probation Practice: Some Sobering Thoughts L.R. SINGER	literal	0
Lawrence Singer is an Assistant Chief Probation Officer with Merseyside Probation Service.	metaphorical	1
Beforehand he worked as a probation officer for Berkshire Probation Service and later as a research officer for Somerset Probation Service where he undertook the research reported here.	literal	0
The paradigm which is described originates from doctoral research into generic probation practice and has been presented in a book Adult Probation and Juvenile Supervision: Beyond the Care-Control Dilemma(1989, Gower).	metaphorical	1
SUMMARY	literal	0
The Government White Paper Crime, Justice and Protecting the Public proposes a radical change for probation practice.	metaphorical	1
Henceforth probation work will no longer be an alternative to punishment but an alternative form of punishment.	metaphorical	1
This article challenges the conceptual and practical appropriateness of applying the notion of punishment to the probation context.	metaphorical	1
Probation officers, it is argued, are concerned with establishing rules for probationers and not inflicting pain on them.	metaphorical	1
An alternative non-punitive paradigm of probation practice is described.	literal	0
The paradigm is based on the joint supervisory aims of support and surveillance which are implemented through the methods of counselling, assisting, directing, and monitoring.	metaphorical	1
To illustrate the paradigm, reference is made to an alcohol education course developed for offenders in trouble through drink.	metaphorical	1
The efficacy of the alcohol project and the non-punitive paradigm is demonstrated by the results reported from a three year evaluation study covering 152 offenders.	metaphorical	1
The article concludes with an affirmation of the disciplined but non-punitive character of current probation work and argues that, to successfully protect the public and reintegrate offenders into the community, the probation officer's employment of established social work knowledge, skills, and values is a strength not a weakness.	metaphorical	1
The aim of this article is to challenge the assertion contained in the White Paper Crime, Justice and Protecting the Public(Home Office, 1990a) that probation practice can be conceived of as a form of punishment in the community.	metaphorical	1
Issue will be taken with the appropriateness of applying the concept of punishment to the probation context through reference to a demanding and successful probation project concerned   with offenders in trouble through drink.	metaphorical	1
In describing the project, a non-punitive model for understanding probation practice will be developed.	metaphorical	1
This non-punitive paradigm will provide a framework for contrasting the efficacy of current practice with future plans inappropriately to transform probation work into‘a new approach to punishment in the community’(p. 18, para. 4.3).	metaphorical	1
The punitive approach anticipated for the Probation Service in the White Paper is underpinned by a definition of punishment that resides‘in the restrictions on liberty and in the enforcement of the orders’.	metaphorical	1
The White Paper goes on to emphasize:‘It is the loss of liberty involved in carrying out the terms of the order rather than the activities carried out during the order which is the punishment’(p. 18, para. 4.4).	metaphorical	1
Notwithstanding the popular appeal and political capital to be derived from such a humane-sounding statement, this definition is nevertheless at variance with the traditional understanding of the meaning of punishment.	metaphorical	1
Discourses on punishment and dictionary definitions of the term clearly specify the central feature of punishment as being the infliction of pain rather than the loss of liberty per se(Hudson, 1987).	metaphorical	1
The conceptual and practical implications of this discrepancy will be examined in the third and final section of this article.	metaphorical	1
Beforehand, however, consideration will be given first to the probation project and second to its evaluation.	metaphorical	1
In these sections punishment will be understood to mean the infliction of pain and the review of the project will seek to demonstrate that the probation practice described is not only more demanding but also more effective than this traditional understanding of punishment.	metaphorical	1
At a time when the Home Secretary is inviting the Probation Service to‘move centre stage in the Criminal Justice System’(NACRO, 1990, p. 17) it may seem misguided and unnecessarily pedantic to take issue with the White Paper's notion of punishment.	metaphorical	1
Punishment is just a word after all: nothing more than convenient political rhetoric meriting only lip- service from probation managers and practitioners poised at the‘window of opportunity’.	metaphorical	1
However, this fails to acknowledge a fundamental axiom of social work practice; namely that language not only reflects but also shapes social reality.	metaphorical	1
As Davies(1981) has pointed out, speech is the basic tool of the social worker.	metaphorical	1
What we say influences what we think and in turn, what we do.	metaphorical	1
If punishment is assimilated into the probation glossary it will inevitably influence the sort of practice the Service undertakes.	metaphorical	1
In the sections to follow the stark question is therefore put‘Is the Probation Service in the business of inflicting pain?’ and the answer which unfolds may be summarized‘No, because it neither aspires nor wishes to!’ 	metaphorical	1
THE PROJECT: MORE DEMANDING THAN PUNISHMENT	metaphorical	1
Government concern about the problem of drink-related offending is as old as the Probation Service.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, as Bochel(1976) has shown, the establishment of a Probation Service in England and Wales was inextricably linked with work undertaken with offenders in trouble through drink.	metaphorical	1
Almost a century later the new approach to punishment in the community outlined by the White Paper once again presents alcohol misuse as a key problem requiring community-based intervention.	metaphorical	1
‘Alcohol’, the White Paper states,‘is implicated in a wide variety of crimes, drunken driving, offences of public disorder and domestic violence’(p. 21, para. 4. 14).	metaphorical	1
In describing its vision of effective supervision the White Paper goes on to note:	metaphorical	1
offenders take part in alcohol education programmes so that they can learn to drink sensibly.	metaphorical	1
They learn about the relative strength of different drinks, the amount which is safe to consume, and the pitfalls to avoid(e.g. competitive drinking and buying‘rounds’)(p. 37, para. 7.11).	metaphorical	1
As a summary of alcohol education programmes, this is something of a simplification.	metaphorical	1
However it does provide a useful introduction to the origins of the Alcohol Education Course reported here.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, it highlights the suitability of referring to this type of project for testing out the appropriateness of applying the notion of punishment to probation practice.	metaphorical	1
In 1985 the management of Somerset Probation Service was faced with the fact that nearly one in three of the offenders supervised in their area were either known to be or suspected of misusing alcohol(Singer, 1985).	metaphorical	1
Aware of practitioners' frustration in not being able to work effectively with these problematic clients, Probation management, in partnership with the voluntary sector, determined to develop an Alcohol Education Course(AEC).	metaphorical	1
By 1986, when social inquiry report monitoring information covering 1,257 offenders indicated that the problem of drink-related offending was virtually as great for pre- as for post-sentence clients, that is, alcohol was cited as a pre-offence problem in twenty-nine per cent of cases, a specialist project worker had been appointed.	metaphorical	1
Towards the end of 1986 an AEC was launched and has been running ever since.	metaphorical	1
The aim of the course is to educate offenders about alcohol to facilitate a lasting change in their subsequent use of this drug.	metaphorical	1
This aim is underpinned by three interrelated objectives and it is not without significance how they complement and serve to implement the White Paper's own trinity of‘aims of supervision’, that is, protection of  the public, prevention of reoffending and successful reintegration of the offender in the community(p. 35, para. 7.3).	metaphorical	1
These were:	metaphorical	1
1.	literal	0
To increase knowledge about alcohol so that future alcohol use can be more informed and therefore more prudent.	metaphorical	1
2.	literal	0
To instil or reinforce responsible drinking attitudes and behaviour.	metaphorical	1
3.	literal	0
To encourage the maintenance of, or, where appropriate, a reduction to a personally and socially safe level of alcohol unit intake.	metaphorical	1
To meet these objectives the AEC has a structured programme involving group and individual contact, that is, six group sessions sandwiched between one-to-one interviews held immediately before and after the group con act.	metaphorical	1
The initial one-to-one meeting, held with one of the two group leaders, serves to clarify what participants can expect from the course and what is expected of them.	metaphorical	1
A standard contract which covers conditions of attendance and an agreement to complete various assignments between group sessions is signed by each participant.	metaphorical	1
The final interview entails a personalized review of the course, as well as the formulation of a follow-up plan to be undertaken with the offender's supervising officer.	metaphorical	1
The course employs a variety of materials and techniques including the use of checklists, magazine and newspaper clippings, quizzes, videos, brainstorm exercises, discussions, drink diaries, and role plays(Menary, 1986).	metaphorical	1
The AEC is primarily intended for young adults subject to a probation order with a special condition of attendance(Schedule 11 4A(II) Criminal Justice Act 1982) and reflects the fact that most Somerset offenders in trouble through drink commit serious offences and/or possess a substantial number of previous convictions.	metaphorical	1
In short, they are seriously at risk of committing further offences and becoming trapped in the revolving door of custody.	metaphorical	1
The development of the Somerset AEC both accords with and constitutes a practical example of the Home Office's recent guidance to sentencers:	metaphorical	1
In recent years the probation service has devoted increasing resources to supervising the more serious and persistent offenders.	metaphorical	1
Probation orders which are combined with constructive, disciplined and effective programmes of supervision are increasingly being used for offenders who stand to receive custodial sentences(1990b, p. 35).	metaphorical	1
From the description of the AEC already given the demanding and disciplined nature of the course can be appreciated.	metaphorical	1
However, the course is not punitive; it is not concerned with the infliction of pain.	metaphorical	1
Instead, it is concerned with the establishment of rules.	metaphorical	1
This is plainly evident from the section of the contract signed by each participant where what is expected of them is spelt out:	metaphorical	1
You will be expected to keep a drink diary throughout the course, and make  attempts at reducing the amount you drink if it is greater than accepted healthy drinking levels.	metaphorical	1
You must be willing to be helped and help others— your experiences will be useful to other group members.	metaphorical	1
You must attend 8 sessions(these will consist of: an introductory session, six group sessions and a final assessment interview).	metaphorical	1
You must not drink before the session.	metaphorical	1
You must be on time— lateness will count as an absence.	metaphorical	1
Unlike the prison inmate, AEC participants can not sit back and passively do their time.	metaphorical	1
Probation practice is not, however, solely concerned with the establishment of rules.	metaphorical	1
As has been demonstrated elsewhere with regard to the generic probation setting(Singer, 1989), the supervision of offenders involves two overarching aims: namely support and surveillance.	metaphorical	1
Support refers to anything which is said or done to help the offender solve or mitigate their personal or social problems: surveillance to anything which is said or done to induce the offender to conform to socially acceptable standards of behaviour.	metaphorical	1
These aims are implemented through the practice of four distinguishable but related methods.	metaphorical	1
In terms of support, there is counselling and assisting: in terms of surveillance, there is directing and monitoring.	metaphorical	1
Each of these four methods are employed during the eight sessions.	metaphorical	1
Although summarized as an alcohol education course, the sessions are not just concerned with giving information but also with enabling participants to make practical use of it.	metaphorical	1
In the first group session the counselling method is registered in the course tutor's notes(Menary, 1986) by the explanation:‘This session aims to get participants to consider the subject of alcohol in ways they had not thought of in the past’(p. 3).	metaphorical	1
During this session the importance of monitoring is also emphasized:	metaphorical	1
Drinks exercises introduce the notion of measurement, concentration of alcohol content; information which will be necessary to carry out the recording of alcohol consumption throughout the duration of the course(p. 3).	metaphorical	1
In the fifth group session entitled‘Focus on the Individual’, the counselling and the monitoring combine with the directing and assisting methods.	metaphorical	1
At the start of the session the tutor's notes make clear that directing extends beyond enforcing the conditions of attendance:	metaphorical	1
This session allows for an in depth examination of the drinking diaries over the last five weeks— identifying the risky circumstances or situations….	metaphorical	1
The aim at the end of the session is to encourage participants to make rules for their future drinking which will lead to a lessening of identified problems(p. 4).	metaphorical	1
Similarly, the assisting extends beyond simply providing handouts of useful information: 	metaphorical	1
It is important that participants are provided with the skills to reduce their drinking levels or handle more effectively‘pub centred’ problems.	metaphorical	1
The use of role play, incorporating previously discussed difficulties(i.e. homework assignment session 4) in‘real’ or set up situations provides an opportunity for testing these skills.	metaphorical	1
Probably the best illustration of the assisting method in action during the course comes in the fifth session when Somerset practitioners take the logic of working with the problem in the community to its ultimate conclusion.	metaphorical	1
In the second half of the session, course leaders sponsor participants to an evening at the pub for the purpose of practising drinking skills and purchasing non-alcoholic drinks.	metaphorical	1
The counselling, assisting, directing, and monitoring on the AEC give substance to the aims of support and surveillance and provide the basis for establishing a model of probation practice.	metaphorical	1
Punishment has no place in this model.	metaphorical	1
Instead the AEC can best be understood as an example of a non-punitive paradigm of probation practice.	literal	0
Twenty years ago the Advisory Council on the Penal System observed that notions of punitiveness do not accord with‘the British concept of probation as an alternative to, rather than a suspension of, punishment’(quoted in Bochel, 1976, p. 238).	metaphorical	1
Twenty years later the AEC demonstrates that this remains no less true now than it was then.	metaphorical	1
But does the AEC work?	metaphorical	1
BRINGING FOSSILS BACK TO LIFE	metaphorical	1
In this chapter some of the ways in which palaeontologists determine the way fossil animals lived are described, reanimating the dead fragments to build up a living creature.	metaphorical	1
Since popular ideas of life in the past are often founded on vividly coloured reconstructions of‘The World in the Jurassic Period’ and the like, it is important to remember that these imaginative scenes are all inferences from bones, and similar fragments.	metaphorical	1
In fact there is nothing fixed about such interpretations, because the way the fossils are understood may change over the years, but it is usually some time before new discoveries percolate into the popular presentations.	metaphorical	1
Even the most solid-looking dinosaurs may have changed their habits in the last few years!	metaphorical	1
Many different lines of evidence may be used to flesh out the bare bones of the fossils.	metaphorical	1
The first of these is the evidence of the rocks from which the remains were recovered.	metaphorical	1
The sediments themselves reveal much about the environment of deposition, as was shown in Chapter 3.	metaphorical	1
It is important to establish whether the fossil animal actually lived in the environment which furnished its sedimentary cover, or whether its remains were swept in from some other place.	metaphorical	1
Fortunately it is usually easy to spot such intruders.	metaphorical	1
The type of sediment and the associated fossils will show whether the environment was marine, freshwater or terrestrial, providing the basic information into which the ecology of the animal has to be accommodated.	metaphorical	1
The sediments themselves may have preserved some of the tracks left by the animal(p. 20) to give direct evidence of its past activities.	metaphorical	1
From the tracks alone it is possible to be certain of the bipedal stance of certain dinosaurs, and to measure their stride.	metaphorical	1
The character of the rocks, and their setting in the past geography at the time when they accumulated, diagnoses the climatic setting in which the extinct fauna lived, and climate imposes certain restraints on possible modes of life.	metaphorical	1
Savannah animals differ from those of tropical rain forests, and these again from inhabitants of the tundra at high latitudes.	metaphorical	1
Looking at the fossil animal itself, the first necessity is to reconstruct it as accurately as possible from its fragmentary remains.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes this is a very complex business, particularly for vertebrates with numbers of small bones.	metaphorical	1
To proceed from the reconstruction to an assessment of probable life habits two different but complementary approaches are used.	metaphorical	1
One method attempts to compare the structures of teeth or limbs or some other feature of the extinct animal with living analogues.	metaphorical	1
These do not have to be biologically related organisms.	metaphorical	1
The basic argument is that structures that are closely similar were probably adapted to a similar function.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes these similarities are quite obvious: the ferocious teeth of a predatory dinosaur are a sure indication of hunting habits, with hardly a glance at the fangs of living mammalian carnivores.	metaphorical	1
But the structure and functioning of grinding or chewing teeth in other mammals, in which opposing teeth co-operate in action, and which can be matched in extinct, unrelated mammals, is a much more subtle matter, involving detailed studies on the operation of living dental systems to help elucidate the functioning of fossil ones.	metaphorical	1
The technique of‘hunt the analogue’ is a favourite one practised by palaeontologists, but it is certainly not a foolproof one, because there are many fossil animals that defy comparison with living organisms, and some analogues do  not stand up to detailed scrutiny.	metaphorical	1
The second method tries to analyse the structure of the fossil almost as if it were a piece of engineering.	metaphorical	1
If the fossil is constructed in a certain way, then there are only a limited number of‘jobs’ that the structure could perform.	metaphorical	1
The idea here is to decide which of the possibilities is the most likely one.	metaphorical	1
This assumes that nature only manufactures efficient designs.	metaphorical	1
For the most part this is a reasonable assumption to make.	metaphorical	1
Most animals today do seem to have bodies that accord well with the functions they have to carry out to survive: flyers are aerodynamically efficient, active swimmers have suitable streamlining, herbivorous mammals have teeth appropriate for grinding plant food, and so on.	metaphorical	1
Ideally one could construct a model of the fossil to test out these various functions in experiments, but the number of examples where the analysis has been pursued this far are limited.	metaphorical	1
Of course it can never be known whether the right answer has been reached(unless somebody dredges up a‘living fossil’ from the depths of the ocean)— there are only varying degrees of probability.	metaphorical	1
But the best answers are probably obtained where the functional design of the fossil points to the same life habits as a living analogue, and where both are consistent with the geological circumstances in which the fossil remains occur.	metaphorical	1
SWIMMING TRILOBITES	literal	0
There are thousands of different kinds of trilobites.	literal	0
All of them were marine and all of them are extinct.	literal	0
Since many kinds of trilobites co-existed at any one time they were probably occupying different ecological niches,>behaving in different ways, corresponding with the wide variation in shape that they show.	metaphorical	1
We can use the methods described above to elucidate some of these occupations, and get a glimpse, albeit an imperfect one, of the trilobite as it lived.	metaphorical	1
I will take an example where all the methods can be used, and where all point in the same direction, so that the answer is probably correct.	metaphorical	1
Most trilobites were broadly oval-shaped being rather longer than wide, not greatly convex, and with eyes that occupy perhaps a quarter of the length of the head.	metaphorical	1
There are a few trilobite species, however, with enormous, globular eyes(see below).	metaphorical	1
By examining the way these animals were put together it is possible to suggest a likely mode of life.	metaphorical	1
Giant-eyed Ordovician trilobite, seen from the top and side.	metaphorical	1
Twice its natural size.	literal	0
Enlargement shows a section through the lenses to show the direction of the field of view.	metaphorical	1
We can take the eyes first.	metaphorical	1
The trilobite eye was of a compound type, and each lens was made up of a calcite crystal.	metaphorical	1
From the optical properties of this mineral we know that the lens was able to interpret light coming from a direction more or less at right-angles to the lens surface.	metaphorical	1
So we can deduce what the field of vision of our globular-eyed trilobite was, by looking at the directions in which all the lenses face.	metaphorical	1
It turns out that our animal was able to see in almost every direction— upwards, downwards, sideways and forwards, and even backwards, because the eyes bulged out beyond the line of the rest of the body.	metaphorical	1
Most other trilobites have a predominantly lateral field of view.	metaphorical	1
If the animal lived on the sea bottom, it seems unlikely that it would have eye lenses specialized for looking downwards, and we begin to suspect that the animal habitually dwelt above the sea floor.	metaphorical	1
Other features of its shape are consistent with this.	metaphorical	1
At the–   edge of the eyes are a pair of long spines, and these point downwards at a steep angle, at very awkward attitude for resting comfortably on the sea floor.	metaphorical	1
Most‘normal’ trilobites have a more or less horizontal rim around the forward margin, which may have rested on the sediment surface.	literal	0
The thorax of the large-eyed trilobite is remarkably long compared with the average trilobite(compare Fig. 33).	metaphorical	1
The convex, middle part of the thorax contained the musculature that operated the appendages(which, as usual, are not preserved), and the relatively large volume of this region shows that the musculature was powerful.	metaphorical	1
The construction of this giant-eyed trilobite suggests that it lived an actively swimming life well above the bottom, and possibly in the surface waters of the sea.	metaphorical	1
Of course because there are no living trilobites we can not find direct confirmation of this hypothesis, but we can look for other arthropods that have the same modifications of the eyes, for example, in the present day oceans.	metaphorical	1
The analogy is found in such ocean-going amphipods(a kind of‘shrimp’) as Cystosoma, which also has enormously expanded eyes, looking like headlamps, compared with its bottom-dwelling relatives(see above).	metaphorical	1
In fact many of the arthropods that inhabit the water column have large, globular eyes of this kind.	metaphorical	1
49 Fossil bony fish, Lates gracilis, Eocene.	literal	0
This fish is preserved in a fine-grained limestone which preserved most of the skeletal details of the fish(but not its colours).	metaphorical	1
This is a stout-bodied fish, something like a perch in general proportions, with long, low fins on upper and lower rear of the body(fin rays finely divide near their ends).	metaphorical	1
Head to tail the fish measures 17 cm.	literal	0
50 Vertebra of the Jurassic pliosaur, Liopleurodon species, Kimmeridge, southern England.	literal	0
This is only one vertebra of an animal much too bulky to appear in a book of this size!	metaphorical	1
The original porous bone has been consolidated to become much heavier than it would have been in life.	metaphorical	1
Diameter of the vertebra is about 10 cm.	metaphorical	1
51 Fossil frog, Rana species, Miocene, Spain.	literal	0
This species is preserved in a soft shale, but one which allows for the skeletal anatomy to be preserved in its entirety.	metaphorical	1
The outline of the soft parts are also clearly displayed, so that the animal has been preserved almost in frozen motion.	metaphorical	1
Frogs are one of the more numerous of amphibian fossils.	literal	0
Specimen 12 cm long.	literal	0
52 Fossil calcareous alga, belonging to the genus Coelosphaeridium, Ordovician, Ringsaker, Norway.	metaphorical	1
These spherical algae are preserved as internal moulds in a mudstone, the original calcite having disappeared.	metaphorical	1
Canals within the algae stand out as rods in this kind of preservation, which is common in Ordovician rocks.	metaphorical	1
There is a central sphere visible on one of the specimens.	literal	0
Related forms are spread over much of the world in Ordovician and Silurian times.	metaphorical	1
Individual globes have a diameter of 1½–2 cm.	literal	0
53 Fossil lycopod bark, Lepidodendron rimosum, Carboniferous, Newcastle, England.	literal	0
This is a typical‘coal shale’; shales and silts occurring between productive coal seams often contain impressions of the plants that went to form the coal.	metaphorical	1
The plant material itself is converted to black carbon.	metaphorical	1
This fossil bark is typified by its lozenge-shaped leaf scars arranged in spiral rows.	metaphorical	1
This fragment is 1O cm long.	metaphorical	1
54 Fossil bark of the lycopod tree, Sigillaria laevigata, Carboniferous.	literal	0
This specimen lies on a slab of mudstone, the specimen itself having been converted into coal-like material— that is, into carbon.	metaphorical	1
Sigillaria bark is covered with little horseshoe-shaped scars(leaf cushions).	metaphorical	1
It is found in North America(Canada and the US), England, Belgium, France, Germany and Russia.	literal	0
This piece is 9 cm long.	metaphorical	1
55 Leaves of the enigmatic plant, Glossopteris linearis, Permian.	literal	0
Many of these long leaves are preserved on the bedding planes of a siltstone.	metaphorical	1
Glossopteris is characterized by its long strap-shaped leaves, which have a conspicuous midrib, with many fine, smaller veins branching off it to form a network.	metaphorical	1
Its classification in relation to other plants is still unsolved.	literal	0
These leaves have a length of 7–8 cm.	metaphorical	1
56 Fossil root, Stigmaria ficoides, Carboniferous.	literal	0
This root is preserved as an internal mould, in a tough sandstone.	metaphorical	1
It has been slightly crushed.	literal	0
The infilling sandstone is derived from the fossil soil over which the root was growing.	metaphorical	1
Stigmaria is the name given to roots of the giant lycopod Lepidodendron(this page).	metaphorical	1
This specimen is 15 cm long, but roots have been found which attain a length of 14 metres!	metaphorical	1
57 Leaf of a Carboniferous seedfern, Mariopteris muricata, Staffordshire, England.	literal	0
The specimen is preserved in a hard claystone nodule, which preserved the leaflets in relief.	metaphorical	1
This is quite a common preservation in coal measures.	metaphorical	1
Microscopical details are not so well-preserved, and the fossil is, of course, only a fragment of a larger plant.	literal	0
The leaflets are attached to the axis along their entire base.	metaphorical	1
6 cm long.	literal	0
58 Fossil horsetail, Annularia sphenophylloides, Carboniferous.	metaphorical	1
This specimen is preserved as a carbonaceous compression on a very fine-grained and well-bedded sandstone, a preservation common in Carboniferous rocks.	metaphorical	1
The little circlets of flat‘leaves’ born at regular intervals on the jointed stems serve to distinguish this plant from others in the Carboniferous coal-shales. 8 cm long.	metaphorical	1
59 A‘prefern’, Archaeopteris hibernica, Devonian, Kilkenny, Ireland.	literal	0
A fern-like plant, beautifully preserved in a yellow sandstone.	literal	0
The original material of the axis shows up black against the background of the rock.	literal	0
The large frond carries many branches, on which there are numbers of leaf-like pinnules— more or less alternating on either side of the branch.	metaphorical	1
The specimen is 25 cm long.	literal	0
60 Fossil fern, Sphenopteris laurenti, Carboniferous, Derbyshire, England.	literal	0
The frond of this fossil fern is preserved as a compression on the surface of a fine-grained, mica-rich siltstone.	metaphorical	1
Some of the original fine detail on the leaflets is preserved.	literal	0
Reproductive structures should really be found to distinguish it from other, superficially fern-like plants.	metaphorical	1
This frond is 9 cm long.	metaphorical	1
61 Fossil poplar leaf, Populus latior, Miocene.	literal	0
The leaf is excellently preserved on the flat bedding-plane of a limestone laid down under fresh water.	literal	0
Poplar leaves have an elegant outline resembling that of an arab minaret.	metaphorical	1
This species has a finely toothed margin; a large, wide leaf born on a long stem.	metaphorical	1
This type of tree has a history extending back to the upper Cretaceous.	metaphorical	1
Length of leaf is 18 cm.	literal	0
62 Miocene maple seeds, Acer trilobatum.	literal	0
Seeds of the maple family are typically in pairs, joined at the base, with flat‘wings’ that help the seeds to disperse.	metaphorical	1
Seeds of Acer are rare compared with the leaves, which can be found in rocks dating back to the Cretaceous period.	metaphorical	1
This is from the Oeningen, Switzerland.	metaphorical	1
Seeds are about 3 cm long.	metaphorical	1
63 Miocene maple leaf, Acer trilobatum.	literal	0
This leaf is exquisitely preserved in a fine-grained, flat-bedded marly limestone.	metaphorical	1
Although much of the fine detail can be seen most of the tissue of the leaf is destroyed.	literal	0
The leaf is divided into three parts with a broad central lobe(finely toothed) and two flanking lobes.	metaphorical	1
Simple, distinct veining can also be seen.	metaphorical	1
The leaf is 10 cm long.	literal	0
64 Fossil flower, Porana oeningensis, Miocene.	literal	0
These beautifully preserved flowers are from the Oeningen deposits like the maple leaf and seeds illustrated here.	metaphorical	1
Fossil flowers are extremely rare because of their delicacy and because they are shortlived.	literal	0
These flowers have five oval petals, finely veined.	metaphorical	1
No details of the stamens are present in the fossil state.	metaphorical	1
Diameter of the flowers is about 2 cm.	metaphorical	1
Giant-eyed living crustacean(Cystosoma)	literal	0
If it is correct that our trilobite lived above the sea bottom, actively swimming in the water, there are certain predictions we can make about its geological occurrence which can be tested by looking in the rocks.	metaphorical	1
Most bottom-dwelling trilobites preferred to live at a particular water depth, or on a particular type of sea bottom(mud, sand or lime).	metaphorical	1
No such restriction should apply to our large-eyed species; it should be found with all other different kinds of trilobite assemblages without preference.	metaphorical	1
This has been proved in several places: in some arctic localities it is found with trilobites that lived at great depths in the muds of the Ordovician ocean, while in Canada the same species occurs mixed with the inhabitants of the shallow-water seas, where limestones were accumulating.	metaphorical	1
By the same token the free-swimming trilobite may be expected to have a very wide geographical distribution, for oceans would be no barrier to it.	metaphorical	1
And again this proves to be the case: our example is found in Arctic Canada, in the high Arctic  island of Spitsbergen, thousands of miles away in what is now the desert country of Nevada and Utah in the United States, in western Ireland, in Russia, and in northwestern Australia.	metaphorical	1
So in this case the different sources of evidence all point in the same direction, whether derived from a detailed consideration of the way the trilobite is constructed, or by analogy with living animals with similar adaptations, or from the evidence of the rocks or the distribution of the fossils.	metaphorical	1
These giant-eyed trilobites of the Ordovician were active swimmers in the surface waters, as near certainly as we can ever know.	metaphorical	1
There are all kinds of different questions we can ask about the life habits of these trilobites, which are not subject to the same kind of careful scrutiny.	metaphorical	1
What did they eat, for example?	literal	0
Because we do not have the legs preserved, it is not possible to see how the mouth appendages functioned in feeding, and neither are the stomach contents preserved.	metaphorical	1
So here there are only more or less likely speculations.	metaphorical	1
Active swimmers in the surface waters of the present oceans are likely to feed directly on the plankton, and the trilobites may have had a method of harvesting large quantities of minute food.	metaphorical	1
Or they may have been hunters after larger prey, in which case when appendages are eventually discovered they may prove to have adaptations for grasping and manipulating larger food.	metaphorical	1
Puzzles remain, even though we can be certain of the rudiments of the story.	metaphorical	1
CONTROVERSY AMONG THE GIANT DINOSAURS	metaphorical	1
The giant sauropod dinosaurs like Brachiosaurus were the largest land animals the world has seen they weighed more than 80 tonnes and present quite different problems in the interpretation of their life habits from the diminutive trilobites.	metaphorical	1
Such spectacular animals have obviously attracted much attention, and one might suppose that the problem of how they lived would have been satisfactorily solved long ago.	metaphorical	1
Most of the popular books showing the Mesozoic giants in their natural setting portray them wallowing about in swamps flanked by deep vegetation, their bodies largely under water.	metaphorical	1
Surely an animal of this bulk, it was argued, must be partly supported by water, and their relatively inconsequential teeth must have been adapted for chewing on the kind of soft, luxuriant vegetation that flourishes in and around swamps.	metaphorical	1
Because their nasal openings were on the top of their heads they could even continue to breathe if it became necessary(see p. 115) to totally submerge.	literal	0
Recently the life habits of the giants have been looked at in a way that disproves most of these traditional notions.	metaphorical	1
Consider the structure of their legs.	metaphorical	1
The sauropods have relatively long, pillar- like legs, resembling those of the elephant, the largest living land animal, and may have been well adapted for supporting the huge bulk of the animal.	metaphorical	1
The feet of the sauropod are small(relatively speaking!), with short, stubby toes, yet animals that walk on soft mud tend to have spreading feet to distribute their weight more evenly.	metaphorical	1
It is difficult to see how the compact feet of the sauropod could avoid becoming stuck fast in the soft, muddy bottom of a lake.	metaphorical	1
If the dinosaur did, after all, live on dry land, then the long neck could have usefully functioned to allow the animal to browse the high foliage of trees(see p. 116).	metaphorical	1
It has been suggested that an animal of the size of Brachiosaurus could not have breathed under water because of the pressure on the lungs.	literal	0
Their fossil remains seem to occur with other animals and plants, which are generally accepted as terrestrial.	literal	0
There is even some evidence from the tracks they have left behind that Diplodocus and its allies moved about in herds.	metaphorical	1
They may have been the gigantic reptilian analogue of the elephant, and it may be no coincidence that the elephant also has its nasal openings on top of the skull, with the nostrils in this case sited at the end of the trunk it has been suggested that some sauropods may have had a proboscis of some sort.	metaphorical	1
The balance of evidence seems to be swinging away from the original idea of swamp-dwelling giant dinosaurs to fully terrestrial habits.	metaphorical	1
But other aspects of the dinosaur living habits are still more strongly debated.	metaphorical	1
In the last few years a powerful controversy has arisen over whether the dinosaurs as a whole were cold-blooded, like all living reptiles(and there is no doubt that dinosaurs were reptiles), or warm-blooded, resembling mammals in this respect.	metaphorical	1
Cold-blooded animals have to‘warm up’ before they can be fully active; that is why lizards and snakes bask in the sun in temperate climates.	metaphorical	1
For this reason they can not cope with climates having greatly extended winters.	metaphorical	1
Warm-blooded animals have the same body temperatures at all times, and can be more continuously active, but they use far more energy— and hence need more food—  than cold-blooded animals of the same size.	metaphorical	1
The posture of many dinosaurs, and particularly the carnivorous theropod dinosaurs, was fully erect with the legs beneath the body, and unlike the sprawling legs of living reptiles(see p. 116).	metaphorical	1
The long back legs of such hunters look highly suitable for running, and as they did so the long tail may have been held erect as a kind of counter-balance(see p. 116).	metaphorical	1
For any kind of prolonged activity, warm-bloodedness would have been a distinct advantage.	literal	0
Under the microscope even the bone structure of these dinosaurs looks more like that of living mammals than cold-blooded reptiles.	metaphorical	1
On the other hand it can be argued that the sauropods like Brachiosaurus were so large, and with a relatively small surface area through which to cool compared with their enormous volume, that their cooling rate could have been slow enough to allow them to sustain more continuous activity than smaller, living reptiles.	metaphorical	1
It has also been argued that the small mouths of the giants simply could not have downed enough food to support a warm-blooded metabolism, particularly plant food that needs a lot of processing before it becomes available as energy.	metaphorical	1
The armoured or plated dinosaurs include some species that seem too heavily burdened with protective armour to have been very active, but this does not necessarily mean that they had to be cold-blooded.	metaphorical	1
Protagonists of the warm-blooded theory will show some of the horned dinosaurs charging over the Cretaceous plains like furious reptilian rhinoceroses!	metaphorical	1
One idea about the life habits of the dinosaur giants, published in Joc and Colette at the Natural History Museum in 1935	metaphorical	1
The warm-blooded supporters tend to ally themselves with the supporters of a theory about the relationships of the dinosaurs.	metaphorical	1
This is that the dinosaurs, or a close dinosaur relative, included the ancestors of the living birds.	metaphorical	1
Some of the smaller, and most certainly highly active dinosaurs were about the size of a chicken, and there is more than a passing similarity between a running ostrich and the kind of reconstruction that shows fleet-footed, running dinosaurs.	metaphorical	1
The point is that birds themselves are warm-blooded, like mammals, and if birds and dinosaurs are as closely related as now seems likely, then it obviously increases the likelihood  that the dinosaurs themselves may have been warm-blooded.	metaphorical	1
The pros and cons of this theory are the subject of much contentious debate by experts, but it would probably be correct to say that the greater number of specialists believe that at least the more bipedal of the dinosaurs, including small and large carnivores, were warm-blooded, active animals.	metaphorical	1
A lot of the argument among the authorities on these animals is about the equivalence or otherwise of certain bones in dinosaurs and bird skeletons(and particularly the Jurassic bird Archaeopteryx); this makes for rather dry reading for the layman.	metaphorical	1
But the end- product is the accurate reconstruction of the Jurassic and Cretaceous terrestrial world, over which the dinosaurs were indisputably dominant.	metaphorical	1
Action and Inaction in the Cities	literal	0
Susanne MacGregor and Ben Pimlott	literal	0
The essays in this book do not amount to a programme: but they are intended to provide a springboard for one.	metaphorical	1
The aim is to analyse a problem which economic growth alone has failed to cure— and to consider possible new forms of public action.	metaphorical	1
The biggest single difficulty in drawing attention to urban poverty is that it is not new, but simply— in some of its most worrying manifestations— getting worse.	metaphorical	1
Like the poor themselves, the inner city has long been with us.	metaphorical	1
Ever since the Industrial Revolution created a mass urban society, the conditions of the poorest city dwellers have given rise to anxiety among the better off.	metaphorical	1
The inner city has been variously regarded as a cause for moral outrage, a threat to public order, or as a stain on the nation's conscience.	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile bad housing, bad sanitation, lack of education, and other perennial ills associated with overcrowding and poverty have been routinely denounced by political leaders and social reformers.	metaphorical	1
A central objective of the post-war welfare state was, indeed, to alleviate the problems of the urban poor, over whom Beveridge's Five Giants(Want, Disease, Ignorance, Squalor, and Idleness) had for so long held sway.	metaphorical	1
In the early 1940s and 1950s, the belief was widely held that a combination of government intervention— in the form of town planning, housing and health programmes, and the provision of social security— and permanent male full employment, together with an increase in real wages, would reduce suffering due to poverty to manageable proportions.	metaphorical	1
The 1964 Labour Government was elected on a tide of impatience at the slackening pace of social reform, but also of optimism that little more than economic growth, fuelled by technological change, was needed to remove the main causes of urban deprivation(MacGregor, 1981). 	metaphorical	1
Disillusion swiftly followed.	metaphorical	1
The work of Peter Townsend and others showed that, far from presiding over the elimination of poverty, the Wilson Government actually failed to prevent some of its features from worsening(Townsend and Bosanquet, 1972).	metaphorical	1
Evidence began to mount that much of the social welfare paternalism of the post-war period had created almost as many problems as it solved.	metaphorical	1
Neither the Butler Education Act of 1944, nor the introduction of comprehensive schools, prevented a high proportion of children from under- achieving.	metaphorical	1
Post-war reconstruction and housing programmes seemed to do nothing to prevent, and seemed even to encourage, a rise in crime and mental illness.	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile, in many parts of the country, a problem as old as cities themselves— tension between cultural groups, between earlier immigrants and newer ones, between black, brown, and white, and(increasingly) between large sections of urban youth and the police— came to be identified as the key inner-city issue.	metaphorical	1
Rising unemployment turned a lingering and growing malaise into a crisis.	metaphorical	1
As in the United States, so in Britain it was an outbreak of violence that dramatically brought the plight of the inner cities to public notice.	metaphorical	1
In the early 1980s, at a time when manufacturing industry was collapsing and the outlook for the unskilled looked particularly bleak, frustration boiled over in a series of riots in London, Bristol, Birmingham, Liverpool, and elsewhere.	metaphorical	1
All were spontaneous outbursts: none, contrary to some claims, were politically inspired or orchestrated(except in Northern Ireland where urban problems existed on a grander, more devastating scale, and where there was a unique heritage).	metaphorical	1
Many had an‘ethnic’ dimension, in the sense that many of the rioters were black.	metaphorical	1
Unlike, however, the 1958 Notting Hill riots, few of those involved were immigrants— the vast majority were British born.	metaphorical	1
And the disturbances could not strictly be called racial: the most prominent feature was that of violent clashes between young people and the police.	metaphorical	1
The problems, however, were not confined to violent upheavals of this kind.	metaphorical	1
Paul Harrison's Inside the Inner City: Life under the Cutting Edge focused on Hackney, a London borough ranked among the worst off on any scale of urban deprivation(Harrison, 1983).	metaphorical	1
Harrison describes(p. 369) the way in which the inner urban powder-keg leads to a vicious circle, with many victims, but few individual villains:	metaphorical	1
The police force face the virtually impossible task of keeping the lid on the explosive mixture of ingredients that the dynamics of British society have assembled in the inner city.	metaphorical	1
This mixture, heated by recession and high unemployment, inevitably generates a high level of crime.	metaphorical	1
This necessitates, in turn, a far more numerous and ubiquitous police presence than in other kinds of area, far more frequent unpleasant contact with the public as potential suspects, and far greater opportunities for police misjudgment or abuse.	metaphorical	1
The inevitable sufferers, of course, are the poor, of whom those who actually commit the offences that concern the police are a tiny minority and whom, indeed, it should be the purpose of the police to protect.	metaphorical	1
Not only are the most disadvantaged on the receiving end of most crime, argues Harrison, they also have to put up with the heaviest police presence.	metaphorical	1
They are more likely to be stopped and searched, and to be the victim of mistaken arrest or conviction.	metaphorical	1
At the same time, the residents of the poorest areas have to suffer, in a way that is not true of those who live elsewhere, a growing fear of attack on themselves or their property.	metaphorical	1
Improved police methods might help, writes Harrison, to contain the problem.	metaphorical	1
But, without other changes, the result is likely to be a‘society of barricaded self-defence, and a steady erosion of civil liberties’.	metaphorical	1
And he concludes,‘of all the warnings that the inner city has to offer for the direction British society is taking, this is perhaps the most sinister’.	metaphorical	1
Harrison's vision of a nightmarish future for inner cities, locked in a cold or hot war between have-nots and the forces of public order, was echoed by Robert Chesshyre(1987, p. 95), who concluded that by the late 1980s:	metaphorical	1
The basic social contract, whereby citizens enjoy certain rights— including health care, decent education and housing and a job— in return for which they observe the rule of law, was breaking down.	metaphorical	1
As a consequence an underclass was evolving— football hooligans, muggers, inner city rioters— somewhat more frightening than their Dickensian forebears because they were mobile and all too visible.	metaphorical	1
Recently, of course, there has been an added dimension— part media-and-politician inflated, part real: drugs.	metaphorical	1
The spiral in drug abuse and trafficking, with direct consequences for the AIDS epidemic, has created a new kind of alarm.	metaphorical	1
The early 1980s witnessed a radical change in patterns of heroin taking, alongside the global increase.	metaphorical	1
Smoking heroin(‘chasing the dragon’) was one feature of the upsurge.	metaphorical	1
Another was the increased availability of, and demand for, cocaine.	literal	0
Sensational media and police reports in 1989 seemed to suggest an increased use of‘crack’ among young people in parts of south London, Liverpool, and Birmingham— with attendant fears that this particularly dangerous substance might become widespread, as it was reported to be in parts of the United States.	metaphorical	1
for the moment, however, the pattern of drug abuse in Britain remains as varied as ever— with home-produced drugs such as amphetamines as serious a problem as those that hit the headlines.	metaphorical	1
It is a symptom of public anxiety about urban squalor— and, less creditably, of class and racial prejudice— that‘drugs’ and‘inner cities’ are automatically linked in the popular consciousness(MacGregor, 1989a).	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, drug-taking and more particularly the disruptive social consequences of addiction, are especially serious in areas of city poverty(Burr, 1989).	metaphorical	1
In short, if life was always harder in the inner cities than elsewhere, and if conditions may temporarily have been alleviated by the impact of the welfare state and rising incomes, the last decade has been widely represented as a period of deterioration.	metaphorical	1
Moreover, few would dispute that this apparent decline is a reality: the first words of the Prime Minister herself, after the result of the 1987 election was known, were an acknowledgement of the challenge posed to Government by the‘inner cities’.	metaphorical	1
What has been lacking however— as well as the political will to do something— has been any shared agreement on the cause.	metaphorical	1
Can the problems of urban poverty be blamed on individual pathology?	metaphorical	1
On feckless parents and grandparents?	metaphorical	1
Or on the social or physical environment— the replacement of companionably unhygienic slums by soulless tower blocks with broken lifts(Coleman et al.,	metaphorical	1
1985)?	literal	0
Or would a simple injection of resources transform Kafkaesque honeycombs into happy living-spaces, with a consequent  decline in inner-city ills?	metaphorical	1
‘A duke can live comfortably in a castle, after all’, the architect Cedric Price is quoted as saying.	metaphorical	1
‘You and I would die of frostbite.	literal	0
Same building— just a matter of money and management’(Parkin, 1989).	literal	0
The view that only‘outstanding management’ could meet the problem was held by the Audit Commission(1987).	metaphorical	1
The picture painted by the Commission's report on inner London is as gruesome as any ever presented(and is itself revealing of common prejudices in its choice of indicators of deprivation):	metaphorical	1
In some London boroughs, unemployment among young men exceeds 45%; in some places, among young blacks, it exceeds 60%.	metaphorical	1
More than one child in three is born into a single parent family.	metaphorical	1
Half the school leavers have no O levels or their CSE equivalents.	metaphorical	1
Homelessness, housing conditions, crime are worsening year by year, as the cycle of urban deprivation becomes more established(p. 1)	metaphorical	1
Drawing on North American experience, the Commission concluded that‘poor management was an important contributory factor to New York's problems’, and sought to apply the same lessons here(p. 2).	metaphorical	1
The Government's post-1987 initiatives have, to some extent, reflected a diagnosis based on the need for better management— though on the principle that central authorities can provide a firmer grip than local ones— but combined with an anti-collectivist belief in the restorative powers of capitalism.	metaphorical	1
Leech and Amin(1988, p. 14) summarize this approach, not unfairly, in the following terms:	metaphorical	1
the encouragement of private investment and the liberation of the market; the containment of the forces of social discontent; the control of the powers of the local authorities; and the encouragement of the movement of the wealthy into the inner city thus creating buffer areas of Tory support, accentuating inequalities and injustice and(hopefully though not necessarily) reducing the potential for conflict among the urban poor.	metaphorical	1
The main thrust of the Government's policy is contained in the January 1988 White Paper on Regional Policy and the Enterprise Economy, in the new Employment Training programme, and especially in the March 1988 Action for Cities programme— all  resting on wider reforms to local government structure and finance, and to education and housing.	metaphorical	1
The most striking feature of this package, apart from its aim actively to involve employers and entrepreneurs, is a sharp reduction in the role of local government.	metaphorical	1
Despite the contemporary tone of much of Action for Cities, the programme's heritage can be traced to the early 1960s studies which provided the basis for the 1965 Milner–Holland Report on housing and the 1967 Plowden Report on education, as a result of which general improvement areas and education priority areas were established.	metaphorical	1
The 1970s‘Urban Programme’ had a social, rather than economic, emphasis and was administered by the Home Office.	metaphorical	1
It was initiated partly in response to the furore caused by Enoch Powell's 1969‘rivers of blood’ speech, much as disturbances at the 1976 Notting Hill Carnival prompted further steps on the part of the Department of the Environment—‘A riot makes a much bigger impact on government thinking’, as Donnison(1987) has pointed out,‘than any amount of earnest and accurate research’.	metaphorical	1
The Urban Programme consisted of grants and initiatives under the 1969 Local Government Grants(Social Need) Act, which was intended as a flexible instrument to provide supplementary help to local authorities in the fields of housing, education, and health.	metaphorical	1
Originally, the Programme supplemented existing central and local government schemes designed to meet special needs in urban areas.	metaphorical	1
The scope was extended in an‘enhanced’ Urban Programme, which included economic and environmental as well as social projects, and was specifically directed at the inner urban areas where the problems were most severe.	metaphorical	1
Earlier, the change of emphasis from a‘social’ to an‘economic and environmental’ focus had been reflected in a switch of responsibility for the Programme from the Home Office to the Department of the Environment.	metaphorical	1
The‘enhanced Programme resulted from the 1978 Inner Urban Areas Act, based on a White Paper, published the previous year, on Policy for the Inner Cities(DoE, 1977), the first comprehensive policy statement on the subject to acknowledge it as a definable and cohesive problem.	metaphorical	1
The White Paper drew on studies conducted earlier in the decade in Liverpool, Birmingham,  and London which pointed to a debilitating flight of capital and skilled labour from the critical areas of deprivation.	metaphorical	1
A key aspect of the 1977 White Paper was the stress it placed on the wider effects of poverty: that it was not just those with acute needs who suffered.	metaphorical	1
It argued that in talking about inner cities it was vital to think in terms not just of individuals, but of society; that the multiple deprivations of the worst hit areas affected all the residents; that the consequences included a pervasive sense of neglect and decay, a decline in community spirit, a low standard of neighbourhood facilities, and an increase in crime and vandalism; and that, without government intervention, the future was one of reduced job opportunities, deteriorating housing, and a decline in public services.	metaphorical	1
The document, and the legislation that derived from it, pointed to a positively discriminatory approach: with both central and local government supplementing existing programmes in such a way as to strengthen local economies, as well as the physical and social environment.	metaphorical	1
Such measures constituted the present Government's heritage, when it took office in 1979.	metaphorical	1
None of them, of course, anticipated the scale of the problems which were caused by the slump and collapse of much of what remained of inner urban manufacturing industry in the early 1980s.	metaphorical	1
Neither, at first, did the incoming administration foresee the impact of rising unemployment, which was to be especially serious among the urban young.	metaphorical	1
True, the new Secretary of State for the Environment laid stress, from the outset, on the need for economic regeneration, and indicated his sympathy for the voluntary sector in the tackling of urban problems.	metaphorical	1
The previous Government, however, had already pointed to the need to revitalize urban economies, and at first the shift was more rhetorical than real.	metaphorical	1
Michael Heseltine(1987, p. 138) has since claimed that‘we set a new objective: to make the inner cities places where people would want to live and work and where the private investor would be willing to put his money’.	metaphorical	1
Partnership became his slogan— the partnership of public and private brains and money.	metaphorical	1
A new Urban Development Grant was devised, to pump-prime with public funds schemes which would then attract private investment.	metaphorical	1
Heseltine's vision was of‘partnerships which recognise  that there are some things that only governments can pay for, but also that the ingenuity and flexibility of the private sector is indispensable’(p. 156).	metaphorical	1
He claims that serious work on inner-city policy began in 1979: but it was, undoubtedly, the riots of 1981, coinciding with the biggest drop in employment and job vacancies since the war, which gave impetus to the new approach.	metaphorical	1
Urban Development Corporations were introduced in 1981 in London Docklands and Merseyside, and the Urban Development Grant came in late the following year.	metaphorical	1
Conservative instincts were, of course, to minimize— within the‘partnership— state involvement and expenditure, relative to that of private enterprise.	metaphorical	1
Yet, the irony of the early 1980s— as a deteriorating, but perennial, urban problem rapidly became the most acute aspect of the crisis of mass unemployment— was that a Tory government, willy-nilly, found itself presiding over an increase in state intervention through a variety of agencies.	metaphorical	1
The increased scale of operations also ushered in another fashion of the 1980s— new management structures.	metaphorical	1
Thus in 1985 City Action> Teams were introduced to each‘Inner City Partnership’ area to co-ordinate the work of the three government departments involved.	metaphorical	1
Task forces, meanwhile, were directed to tackle youth unemployment.	metaphorical	1
By 1986/7 the Urban Programme was supporting 1,380 starter units and 400 business starts in enterprise workshops.	metaphorical	1
It was providing 27,500 training places(often in conjunction with the Manpower Services Commission): some 2,500 buildings were being improved; estate action aimed to tackle run down housing; and a large number of new‘partnerships’(which some might see as subsidies, or discredited regional grants, in a new guise) were in operation, in an effort to bring private investment to run-down urban areas.	metaphorical	1
By 1988 it was claimed that£200 million of Urban Development Grant and Urban Regeneration Grant had successfully‘levered’ more than£800 million of private investment into the inner cities(although how much of the latter sum might have been invested in any case is difficult to say).	metaphorical	1
Meanwhile, there were other incentive schemes— Enterprise Zones, for example, and simplified Planning Zones, which aimed to lift tax and planning‘barriers’ in order to facilitate investment.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, while with one hand trying to hold down expenditure by  local authorities, the Government found itself by the late 1980s involved with the other hand in massive ear-marked spending on inner urban areas.	metaphorical	1
The Department of the Environment alone by 1988 was spending half a billion pounds out of an Action for Cities total, involving most Home departments, estimated at£3 billion.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps a Labour government would have spent even more: it would certainly have spent it in different ways.	metaphorical	1
It is a curious comment on Thatcherism, however, that the administration most committed to a reduction in the role of the state, and in the need for an independent private sector, has spent more on specific urban regeneration and employment schemes and incentives to private investment in urban areas than any other in recent history.	metaphorical	1
One of the most bizarre aspects of government policy has been the effective murder of the voluntary sector, and its appropriation, by subterfuge, into the Tory version of the corporate state.	metaphorical	1
Conservatives have always lauded the‘voluntarist’ principle in welfare, and encouraged it from platforms.	metaphorical	1
Faced, however, with the catastrophic increase in unemployment and the need to occupy large numbers of workless people without directly employing them(which would have run counter to the economic doctrine which had led to the redundancy of many of them in the first place), the Government poured money into any‘voluntary’ agency willing to put in a bid for government-funded cheap labour.	metaphorical	1
One result was the triumphant expansion of some charitable organizations, which rejoiced both at their new-found importance and at the Government's munificence.	metaphorical	1
Another was the transformation of many such bodies, already heavily subsidized from public funds, into de facto agencies of the state, which financed them and indirectly determined their policy.	metaphorical	1
Nowhere was the impact of this clumsy sleight of hand more evident than in the inner cities, where voluntary organizations had been most active, and where the Government was most anxious for them to mop up unemployment.	metaphorical	1
However, the later withdrawal of government support, with the scrapping of the Community Programme as unemployment receded, left many of these voluntary organizations high and dry.	metaphorical	1
The National Council for Voluntary Organizations(NCVO) has suggested from a recent survey that  around 3,000 projects had been affected and had lost£285 million in funding(MacGregor, 1990).	metaphorical	1
There was, of course, a crucial element in the Government's anxiety: the high concentration of ethnic minorities in the areas of concern.	metaphorical	1
In 1981 nearly 40 per cent of ethnic minorities in the UK lived in‘partnership’ or‘programme’ areas.	metaphorical	1
There is a danger in reading back from this figure another stereotype, similar to the Pavlovian‘drug addiction/inner city’ assumed link.	metaphorical	1
Some urban areas have serious problems without a major ethnic dimension(Newcastle, Teesside); not all members of ethnic minorities are poor or deprived.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, the high proportion of inner urban populations composed of people from ethnic minorities, and the high incidence among these groups of all the indices of poverty and social and environmental hardship— combined with the specific problem of inter-racial rivalry, harassment, and tension— make race and ethnicity an aspect that is central to any analysis of the inner cities and of any ameliorative approach.	literal	0
MAKING SENSE OF THE 1981 RIOTS	metaphorical	1
Reactions to the riots have concentrated on a number of key variables that are said to characterize the localities in which the riots have occurred.	metaphorical	1
Lord Scarman's report on the 1981 disorders highlighted the importance of unemployment, urban deprivation, racial disadvantage, relations between young blacks and the police, the decline of civic consent, and political exclusion as the key issues.	metaphorical	1
Other reactions have concentrated on the issue of the interplay between inner-city decay and racial disadvantage in contemporary Britain.	metaphorical	1
Yet others have argued that the unrest can be seen as a symptom of the breakdown of law and order in British society(Gaffney, 1987; Hall, 1987; Keith, 1987).	metaphorical	1
The main issues that were prominent in debates during 1980–1 were‘race’ and‘law and order’.	metaphorical	1
This was by no means an accident, since throughout the 1970s a powerful body of media, political, and academic opinion had been constructed around the theme of how Britain was drifting into a‘violent society’, and how the basis of consent was being shifted by the pressures of immigration and the growth of multi-racial inner city areas.	metaphorical	1
A glimpse of the impact of the 1980–1 riots at this level can be achieved through two important debates in Parliament.	metaphorical	1
The first took place in the midst of the July 1981 riots, and had as its theme:‘Civil Disturbances’.	metaphorical	1
The tone of the debate was set by Home Secretary William Whitelaw's introductory statement in which he spoke of(a) the need to‘remove the scourge of criminal violence from our streets’, and(b) the urgency of developing‘policies designed to promote the mutual tolerance and understanding upon which the whole future of a free democratic society depends’(Hansard, vol. 8, 16 July 1981: col. 1405).	metaphorical	1
The‘scourge of criminal violence’ was, Whitelaw argued, a danger to the whole framework of consent and legality on which the  political institutions of British society were based.	metaphorical	1
In reply Roy Hattersley supported the call for the immediate suppression of street violence, but warned that the roots of such riots could not be dealt with until all people felt they had a stake in British society(ibid.: cols. 1407–9)	metaphorical	1
The second debate took place on 26 November 1981, on the publication of the Scarman Report, and had as its theme:‘Law and Order’.	metaphorical	1
The importance of the riots in pushing the law and order issue, and specifically policing, on to the main political agenda was emphasized by the Liberal leader, David Steel, who argued that‘urgent action’ to prevent a drift into lawlessness was necessary from both a moral and a political perspective(Hansard, vol. 13, 26 November 1981: cols. 1009–11).	metaphorical	1
A subsequent debate on the same issue in March 1982 was also full of references to the experience of 1981, the impact of street violence, crime, decaying urban conditions, the breakdown of consent between the police and many local communities, and the spectre of‘more violence to come’ if changes in both policing tactics and social policy were not swiftly introduced(Hansard, vol. 20, 25 March 1982: cols. 1107–81).	metaphorical	1
The need to support the police was accepted by both the Labour and the Conservative speakers in the parliamentary debate on the riots, and was established as a benchmark for the official response to the riots long before the Scarman Report was published in November 1981.	metaphorical	1
Any substantive disagreement centred around the issue of what role social deprivation and unemployment had in bringing young people to protest violently on the streets.	metaphorical	1
Intermingled with the discourses about race and law and order were constant references to unemployment, particularly among the young, and various forms of social disadvantage and poverty(Solomos, 1988, pp. 186–911).	metaphorical	1
Throughout 1980 and 1981 debates about the riots in the media, in Parliament, and in various official reports hinged around the interrelationship between racial, law-and-order, and social factors.	metaphorical	1
The importance of this debate can be explained, partly, by the political capital which the Opposition could make from linking the social and economic malaise of the country at large with violent street disturbances.	metaphorical	1
Conversely, throughout this period Government Ministers strenuously denied  that unemployment and social deprivation were significant causes of urban unrest.	metaphorical	1
Although the Scarman Report is often taken to be the central text which argues for a link between‘social conditions’ and‘disorder’, the terms of the debate were by no means set by Scarman.	metaphorical	1
During both April and July 1981 vigorous exchanges took place in the press and in Parliament about the role that deteriorating social conditions and unemployment may have played in bringing about the riots.	metaphorical	1
During the 16 July parliamentary debate on‘Civil Disturbances’, Roy Hattersley's formulation of this linkage provided a useful summary of the‘social conditions’ argument.	metaphorical	1
After some preliminary remarks about the Labour party's support for the police, he went on to outline his opposition to the view of the riots as essentially anti-police outbursts:	metaphorical	1
I repeat that l do not believe that the principal cause of last week's riots was the conduct of the police.	literal	0
It was the conditions of deprivation and despair in the decaying areas of our old cities— areas in which the Brixton and Toxteth riots took place, and areas from which the skinhead invaders of Southall come.	metaphorical	1
(Hansard, vol. 8, 16 July 1981: col. 1408)	literal	0
Much of the subsequent controversy about this analysis centred on the question of youth unemployment.	metaphorical	1
Hattersley had suggested that the riots were a‘direct product’ of high levels of youth unemployment, and a furious debate ensued in both Parliament and the media about this assertion.	metaphorical	1
The final symbolic cue used to make sense of the 1980–1 protests is more difficult to categorize, but its basic meaning can be captured by the term‘political marginality’.	metaphorical	1
While a number of discussions of the roots of urban unrest in the United States have noted the salience of political marginality in determining participation in violent protests(Skolnick, 1969; Fogelson, 1971; Edelman, 1971; Knopf, 1975), this issue has received relatively little attention in Britain.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, during the 1980–1 events and their aftermath the political context was discussed from a number of perspectives.	metaphorical	1
The Scarman Report, for example, located part of the explanation for the riots in the feelings of alienation and powerlessness  which were experienced by young blacks living in depressed inner-city areas.	metaphorical	1
A successful policy for tackling the roots of urban disorder was seen as one which sought to involve all the community in dealing with the problems of each area so that they could come to feel that they have a stake in its future(Scarman, 1981, para. 6.42).	metaphorical	1
Where such arguments did not fit in with the overarching themes of race, violence and disorder, and social deprivation they were either sidelined or pushed into the sub-clauses of official reports.	metaphorical	1
The Scarman Report, for example, contained the following policy proposal:‘I recommend that local communities must be fully and effectively involved in planning, in the provision of local services, and in the management and financing of specific projects,(Scarman, 1981, para. 8.44).	metaphorical	1
Such a move towards greater political integration was seen by Lord Scarman as essential if the gap between inner-city residents and the forces of law and order was to be bridged.	metaphorical	1
But the concern with overcoming political marginality remained on the sidelines of the main public debate because it questioned the perception of the rioters as driven by irrational, uncivilized, and criminal instincts.	metaphorical	1
This did not, however, stop the question of political marginality and the need to reform existing policies from being raised at all, as can be seen subsequently by the attempts after 1981 to introduce both locally and nationally measures which were meant to address some of the grievances of the rioters and to ensure that further disturbances did not occur.	metaphorical	1
Aspects of these measures are considered further on in the chapter.	metaphorical	1
PERSPECTIVES ON THE 1985 RIOTS	metaphorical	1
Despite widespread predictions of further unrest in the aftermath of 1981, the scale and the location of the 1985 riots seem to have surprised even some of the most astute commentators.	metaphorical	1
Handsworth, for example, was presented even shortly before September 1985 as a‘success story’ in terms of police— community relations.	metaphorical	1
The outbreak of violence in this area was therefore widely presented as an aberration.	metaphorical	1
Similarly the spread of violence in London to areas such as the Broadwater Farm Estate in Tottenham  was seen as a break from previous experience, which had centred on areas such as Brixton.	metaphorical	1
There are many continuities between 1980–1 and 1985 in relation to the common-sense images used in the press and television to cover the events.	metaphorical	1
But responses in 1985 were different, at least in terms of degree, and probably in relation to the extent to which the riots were seen as a‘race’ phenomenon by a wider body of opinion.	metaphorical	1
The ambiguities and sub-clauses to be found in much of the press coverage during 1980–1 had at least acted as a countervailing tendency against the more extreme forms of discourse which blamed the riots completely on black people.	metaphorical	1
During the 1985 riots and their immediate aftermath, the imagery of‘race’ was used by sections of the press without the sense of ambiguity which could still be found in 1980–1.	metaphorical	1
The‘silence over race’ was breached in 1980–1, but in 1985 debate about racial issues was taken a step further.	metaphorical	1
Peregrine Worsthorne, for example, used the ferocity of the confrontations in Handsworth, Brixton, and Tottenham to argue that there was a major question mark over the possibility of assimilating the‘coloured population’ into mainstream‘British values’(Sunday Telegraph, 29 September 1985).	metaphorical	1
To be sure there was still a strong response opposing Enoch Powell's call for repatriation, from all shades of political opinion, but the racialization of public debate about the 1985 riots went much further than 1980–1.	metaphorical	1
In this context it was the externality of British Afro-Caribbeans and Asians which was highlighted rather the racist institutions and processes which worked against blacks at all levels of society.	metaphorical	1
The usage of‘race’ during the September-October 1985 period took on new meanings, which had little if anything to do with the impact of racism as such, since the emphasis was on the cultural characteristics of the minority communities themselves.	metaphorical	1
After Handsworth part of the press response was to blame the riot on rivalry between West Indians and Asians, and even after the arguments were criticized by local residents; and community leaders, they were used to‘explain’' what happened.	metaphorical	1
In addition, the question whether the cultures and values of the black communities, their family structures, and their political attitudes‘bred violence’ was constantly raised(van Dijk, 1988). 	metaphorical	1
The actual facts' of who was arrested during the riots, whether black or white, were hardly debated since it was assumed that they were mostly black and mostly unemployed and involved with crime(Keith, 1987).	metaphorical	1
The imagery of the‘black bomber, used in Handsworth was extended to the notion that there were groups of alienated and criminalized young blacks who saw the riots as a chance to engage in an‘orgy of looting’.	metaphorical	1
The Dear Report on Handsworth captures this image and links it to the social condition of young blacks:	metaphorical	1
The majority of rioters who took part in these unhappy events were young, black and Afro-Caribbean origin.	metaphorical	1
Let there be no doubt, these young criminals are not in any way representative of the vast majority of the Afro-Caribbean community whose life has contributed to the life and culture of the West Midlands over many years and whose hopes and aspirations are at one with those of every other law-abiding citizen.	metaphorical	1
We share a common sorrow.	metaphorical	1
It is the duty of us all to ensure that an entire cultural group is not tainted by the actions of a criminal minority.	metaphorical	1
(Dear, 1985, p. 69)	literal	0
This‘black’ criminal minority was constructed not only into the leading force behind the riots, but sometimes as the only force.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, throughout September and October 1985, and during the following months, the imagery of race continued to dominate debate about both the causes and the policy outcomes of the riots.	metaphorical	1
As pointed out earlier, the‘social causes’ argument was another major plank of public debate about the 1980–1 riots, particularly in relation to the highly politicized issue of unemployment.	metaphorical	1
During 1985 this issue was raised once again, though by then the extent of mass unemployment and urban de-industrialization and decay was more stark than it had been in 198l.	metaphorical	1
Images of‘urban decay’,‘tinderbox cities’, and‘ghetto streets’ linked up with the images of‘race inequality’ and‘black ghettos’ to produce an analysis more complex but also more contradictory.	metaphorical	1
An interesting mixture of the various images was provided by a story in the Daily Telegraph under the headline:‘Broadwater Farm: Like the Divis Flats with Reggae’(8 October 1985).	metaphorical	1
The Mirror described the estate as‘Living Hell’, and quoted one resident as saying that‘You' ve no idea how awful daily life is’(8 October 1985).	metaphorical	1
Such images were reworkings of arguments  already used about Toxteth in 1981 and Brixton in 1981, but they were used more widely than in 1980–1.	metaphorical	1
Even the Daily Mail, which deployed the clearest use of‘race’ and‘outside agitator’ arguments, ran a major story on Broadwater Farm under the headline:‘Burnt-out hulks litter this concrete jungle… despair hangs heavy’(8 October 1985).	metaphorical	1
A number of stories using such imagery were run by both the quality and the popular press during this period, but similar arguments are to be found in parliamentary debates(Hansard, vol. 84, 21 October 1985, cols. 30-.46, 388), and even in official reports produced by the police on the riots in Birmingham and London.	metaphorical	1
The‘cities of inner despair’ were conceived as the breeding ground for disorderly protest, and however hard the Government tried to break the causal link between the two, it was forced to take on board the need to restore order not only through the police but through promises of help for the inner cities.	metaphorical	1
Much as in 1980–1, the‘social causes’ argument can not be seen separately from the broader debate about the future of the British economy and society.	metaphorical	1
The Government's record on unemployment was a heavily politicized issue, and just as in 1981 it vehemently denied any responsibility for the riots through its pursuit of free-market policies.	metaphorical	1
But the Government did find a way of accepting a link between the riots and social problems without bringing its main policies into the debate: namely by linking the growth of violent disorder to crime and drugs.	metaphorical	1
The emphasis on‘crime’ and the‘criminal acts’ of the rioters in the official responses to the 1985 riots took a general and a specific form.	metaphorical	1
The general form relied on the argument that the riots were not a form of protest against the insufferable social conditions of inner-city areas or the actions of the police, but a‘criminal act’ or a‘cry for loot’.	metaphorical	1
This was an argument put most succinctly by Geoffrey Dear, Chief Constable of the West Midlands(Dear, 1985) and by Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, in relation to Handsworth.	metaphorical	1
But it recurred as a theme in official and press responses to the other riots.	metaphorical	1
The specific form was built upon the notion that the outbreak of violence in Handsworth and Brixton, in particular, was brought about by‘drug barons’ who saw the police attempting to curb their activities and control‘their  territory’.	metaphorical	1
Numerous examples of this line of argument can be found in Dear's report on Handsworth, and in press coverage during the riots.	metaphorical	1
Taking the specific argument about the role of drugs and‘drug barons’ in stimulating the riots, this seems to have served two purposes.	metaphorical	1
First, it distanced the riots from the social, economic, political, and other grievances which had been linked to them by locating the cause outside the‘social problems’ of inner-city dwellers and in the‘simple greed’ of the drug barons to accumulate‘loot’.	metaphorical	1
Second, just as Dear's image of a few hundred‘young black criminals’ was used to explain what happened in Handsworth, the problem of drugs was used to explain what happened at a national level.	metaphorical	1
The issue of drugs provided an everyday image, already a national issue through saturation media coverage and public debate, around which the police, the Home Office, and other institutions could depoliticize the riots.	metaphorical	1
Responding to the Handsworth events Douglas Hurd was moved to argue forcibly that such events were senseless and reflected more on those who participated in them than on the society in which they took place:‘The sound which law abiding people in Handsworth heard on Monday night, the echoes of which I picked up on Tuesday, was not a cry for help but a cry for loot’(Financial Times, 13 September 1985).	metaphorical	1
The Chief Constable for the West Midlands, Geoffrey Dear, took this argument further by pointing out that the day before the riots a successful carnival had taken place, with the support of local community leaders.	metaphorical	1
He drew the conclusion from this that the riot‘came like a bolt out of the blue’(Guardian, 21 November 1985).	metaphorical	1
Such language focused attention on the individuals or groups who were‘breaking the law’,‘committing criminal acts’, and threatening the interests of the law-abiding‘majority’.	metaphorical	1
PART 2 Sociology and crime	literal	0
Explaining crime: theories of criminality	literal	0
Most people have their own notions or theories as to what causes criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
For example, lack of discipline in the home, genetic defects, poverty, mixing with the‘wrong sort’ have all been proposed as causes of criminality.	metaphorical	1
While such notions may all contains some elements of truth, they are by no means complete explanations of criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
This chapter will examine a range of theories which attempt to explain such behaviour.	metaphorical	1
Although the major theoretical explanations are covered in the numerous introductions to the sociology of crime and deviance and to sociology generally, some review of these theories is necessary before embarking upon an examination of specific, substantive examples of criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
As this is not a book on criminological theories, what follows will be a brief overview of a wide range of theories and explanations.	metaphorical	1
First, a word of warning might be in order.	metaphorical	1
It would be naive to expect to uncover any ultimate explanation or basic cause for criminal behaviour, given the extensive and diverse behaviour that is encompassed by the term crime.	metaphorical	1
Suppose, for example, that it could be proved that one cause of delinquency was lack of parental supervision.	literal	0
It might still be necessary to ask why delinquency occurred with one son or daughter but not another.	literal	0
Also, there would be the further question of why the parents had not provided adequate supervision.	literal	0
Perhaps this was because of their poor living conditions which would raise the question of why they were in poor housing.	metaphorical	1
Was this because of governmental housing policy or a poor employment record on the part of the bread-winner of the family?	metaphorical	1
Clearly, we are getting further and further away from the causes of delinquent behaviour, and it  is perhaps wisest to think in terms of causal processes when looking at criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
Biological and psychological theories	literal	0
Before examining the major sociological on crime, it is useful to refer to theories from outside of sociology, from other academic disciplines.	metaphorical	1
Thus, we will look initially at biological and psychological theories.	metaphorical	1
Biological theories	literal	0
Biological(or physiological) explanations are based on the notion that some individuals are predisposed to criminal behaviour because of their genetic make-up.	metaphorical	1
The individual criminal is born so; and this is usually put down to‘faulty chromosome patterns’, or, more vaguely, to‘hereditary traits’.	metaphorical	1
The most famous exponent of this approach was the nineteenth-century Italian physician, Cesare Lombroso.	metaphorical	1
In his book L'Uomo Delinquente, Lombroso developed a complex description of what he called the‘born criminal’, who could be recognised by a variety of physical characteristics, in particular facial characteristics— for example large jaws and ears, and high cheek bones.	metaphorical	1
In the medical faculty at the University of Rome there is a gallery of portraits of splendidly ugly delinquents who were used to illustrate Lombroso's theory.	metaphorical	1
To use his own language:	literal	0
Thus were explained anatomically the enormous jaws, high cheek bones, prominent superciliary arches, solitary lines on the palms, extreme size of the orbits, handle- shaped or sessile ears found in criminals, savages and apes, insensibility of pain, extremely acute sight, tattooing, excessive idleness, love of orgies and the craving for evil for its own sake…	metaphorical	1
These explanations see the delinquent individual as inherently more prone to criminal behaviour than the non-delinquent.	metaphorical	1
They have been widely criticised and rejected by sociologists.	literal	0
Lombroso's work, for example, was based on his examination of people in prison in Italy.	metaphorical	1
This would, necessarily, ignore the fact that many criminals do not go to prison, and that, perhaps,  people in prison are not always criminal.	metaphorical	1
Most advocates of biological theories do not express themselves in the same bizarre language and style as Lombroso, and such theories of crime are not merely historical relics that died with Lombroso.	metaphorical	1
In a major study of institutionalised delinquents(delinquents in some form of custody) in the USA in the 1950s, Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck found that delinquent boys were twice as likely to have a mesomorphic build, a chunky, muscular, compared with non-delinquent boys.	metaphorical	1
However, the fact that the study was restricted to institutionalised delinquents limits the validity of the association between body build and crime and delinquency.	metaphorical	1
It may be that tougher-looking delinquents are more liable to be put away than fragile looking ones.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, it has been found that the association between delinquency on the one hand and height, weight and physique on the other is greatly reduced once social, background factors are taken into account.	metaphorical	1
For example, lower working-class people are more likely to be mesomorphic as a result of their diet and continual manual labour, and this class grouping is more likely to be found represented in the criminal statistics.	metaphorical	1
With regard to the links between criminal behaviour and inherited characteristics, there have been a number of theoretical explanations suggesting an association between criminality and particular personality characteristics.	metaphorical	1
An example of this more sophisticated biological approach is the work of Hans Eysenck, who has argued in a series of studies, that there is a link between genetically based personality characteristics and criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
He maintains that there is a link between characteristics such as extroversion and criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
An individual's degree of extroversion or introversion is inherited, determined by his or her genetic make-up.	metaphorical	1
The link with crime found by Eysenck was that when prisoners were tested for extroversion, more extroverts were found than in the general population.	metaphorical	1
Eysenck then argues that extroversion is the inherited basis of criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
Extroverts take longer to learn the rules of society, they are more likely to break them, and thus more likely become convicted criminals.	metaphorical	1
As with Lombroso's work and the Gluecks' study discussed above, by starting with institutionalised criminals, it is assumed that all prisoners are criminals and that most criminals do, in fact, go to prison.	metaphorical	1
The people who get caught and imprisoned  may not be a representative picture of all criminals.	metaphorical	1
The major problem faced by theories suggesting a link between genetic make-up and criminal behaviour is the difficulty of distinguishing between genetic and environmental effects.	metaphorical	1
While some genetic influence can not be ruled out, just what is inherited remains very unclear.	metaphorical	1
Psychological theories	literal	0
These theories share certain similarities with biological explanations.	metaphorical	1
They stress the link between criminal behaviour and specific personality traits or characteristics.	metaphorical	1
Psychological theories, however, see these characteristics as a result of unusual or abnormal experiences, rather than as inherited.	metaphorical	1
Thus, as with biological theories, crime is seen as pathological(a disease), as something to be looked at from the medical point of view.	metaphorical	1
However, psychological causes are seen as treatable, whereas biological causes mark the individual for life.	metaphorical	1
In those cases there is no possible treatment, one is born a criminal.	metaphorical	1
Many psychological theories refer to faulty parent-child relationships, such as abnormal experiences in early childhood having a lasting effect and influence on personality.	metaphorical	1
Studies in this area have indicated that too strict or too lax parental attitudes increase the risk of delinquency(the work of John Bowlby, for example); they have found that if a young child is deprived of close personal relationships with parents or parent figures then‘problem behaviour’ is more common.	metaphorical	1
It is well established that in the delinquent-prone, home discipline is more liable to be too lax, strict or erratic.	metaphorical	1
However, it is patently obvious that parents can be a good or bad influence and example for their children, and this fact can hardly be used to explain present patterns of crime.	metaphorical	1
The majority of offenders do not come from disturbed or broken homes, and many broken homes do not produce delinquents.	metaphorical	1
Of course, this last point does not show that there is no link between parent-child relations and crime and delinquency.	metaphorical	1
The problem with assessing the influence of parental and family dimensions, such as weak supervision or parental criminality, is the fact that they are closely linked to various aspects of social and economic disadvantage, such as poverty, overcrowding and poor housing.	metaphorical	1
And it may be that these disadvantages help to  cause parental difficulties, and hamper good parenting.	metaphorical	1
We can hardly do justice to the wide scope of psychological theories here, but there are some basic ideas and assumptions which underlie such theorizing.	metaphorical	1
These stress the importance of family relationships and upbringing during the early years, and conclude that anti-social, and by implication criminal, behaviour results from faulty personality development.	metaphorical	1
To summarise, these biological and psychological theories hold that the criminal is a particular type of person, apart from the rest of society and with a special predisposition toward criminal behaviour.	metaphorical	1
They are based on the idea that criminal behaviour is either inherited or a consequence of unique, individual experiences.	metaphorical	1
Before we look at sociological explanations it might be useful to ask yourself, or to discuss with colleagues, whether you feel that criminals are different‘types’ of person.	metaphorical	1
While there are, no doubt, predispositions toward criminal behaviour, and clearly certain characteristics are inherited, most sociologists would reject these‘individual pathology’ sort of theories.	metaphorical	1
They lack convincing supporting evidence.	metaphorical	1
While some offenders suffer from mental disorders the vast majority do not.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, if criminals are abnormal then it follows that a large proportion of the population must also be abnormal.	metaphorical	1
For numerous studies have shown that a high percentage of the population have committed criminal offences, in particular high proportions of juveniles, and it is difficult to believe that they are all different or abnormal.	metaphorical	1
Sociological theories	literal	0
We said above that sociologists would reject non-sociological explanations of crime.	metaphorical	1
This is not because such explanations are‘wrong’, but because they are incomplete or inadequate.	metaphorical	1
In Chapter One, it was stressed that crime can not be considered aside from its social context, that it is dependent on society defining certain actions as criminal, and on the reaction of others to such actions.	metaphorical	1
Potential Applications	metaphorical	1
Overview	literal	0
Ian Masser	literal	0
Given the extent to which geographic information management is applications driven, it is important to consider in some depth the characteristics of some potential application fields.	metaphorical	1
In the process it will be necessary to examine not only the extent to which geographic issues feature on the policy issues agenda in these fields but also the institutional context which governs decision-making and the extent to which data are available for research and policy analysis purposes.	metaphorical	1
Questions on data availability are likely to be particularly important where users are heavily dependent on secondary sources.	metaphorical	1
In situations of this kind provisions governing access and format may exert powerful constraints on the use that can be made of these data.	metaphorical	1
The first four chapters in this part examine issues relating to geographic information handling in terms of four potential applications fields.	metaphorical	1
The authors were asked to review the current state of the art in their fields with particular reference to the likely requirements of the future policy issues agenda in terms of the demands that they make on geographic information management.	metaphorical	1
Authors were also asked to evaluate critically the state of geographic information provision in terms of the needs of users and to consider the impact of user requirements on the development of geographic information handling methodology.	metaphorical	1
In this way the chapters in this part present a number of perspectives which essentially complement and amplify the discussion in the previous part.	metaphorical	1
In this case, however, methodological issues are tackled from a largely user standpoint, whereas in the previous part they were viewed as substantive problems in their own right.	metaphorical	1
In effect the product of the discussion in both parts is a matrix where the methodological issues are listed along one axis and particular applications fields on the other.	metaphorical	1
Figure 8.1 summarizes the main features of this matrix.	metaphorical	1
There are important differences between the chapters in this part both in the nature of the demands that they make on geographic information and also in the relative importance that is attached to geographic criteria as against   other issues by planners and decision-makers in these fields.	metaphorical	1
The first three chapters dealing with environmental monitoring, natural and technological hazards and settlements and infrastructure applications make use of a very wide range of geographic information.	metaphorical	1
A major feature of these applications is the extent to which they involve overlays of a variety of information drawn from different sources on a topographic map base.	metaphorical	1
for this reason they make particularly heavy demands on current GIS technology both because of the size of the data sets and the diversity of the data structures that are involved.	metaphorical	1
Brown's chapter on geodemographics discusses an application field where primary data collected for operational purposes are typically evaluated in relation to secondary data derived from sources such as the Census of Population.	metaphorical	1
The range of data sets involved and the demands that are made on GIS technology in applications of this kind are often more limited than those of previous applications fields.	metaphorical	1
However, this is offset by the demands that are made on spatial analysis and modelling methodology.	metaphorical	1
Rhind's chapter on environmental monitoring and prediction discusses the role of geographic information management in promoting sustainable development on a global scale in the context of the issues identified in the Brundtland report.	metaphorical	1
It points to the impact that the findings of global environmental research are likely to have on most sectors of the UK economy.	metaphorical	1
This contribution also indicates the wide variety of groups that are involved in monitoring environmental change and draws attention to the role that the European Community is increasingly playing in co-ordinating these efforts.	metaphorical	1
One of the examples of work in progress discusses research that has been  carried out for the European Commission as part of the CORINE Project.	metaphorical	1
This highlights the challenges for research in a field categorized by a lack of data for some countries, varying definitions and standards in use, and unreasonably high user expectations.	metaphorical	1
The chapter as a whole draws attention to a number of key methodological issues that are involved in environmental monitoring and prediction.	metaphorical	1
These include the highly specialized nature of much of the technical analysis, the limited capacity for checking the accuracy of many of the findings of this kind of research and the consequent need for the development of knowledge- based inference machines for extracting useful information from secondary and often proxy data.	metaphorical	1
In Chapter 10 Gatrell and Vincent consider a wide range of natural and technological hazards including industrial hazards, risk assessment, hazardous waste disposal, emergency planning, natural hazards and environmental epidemiology.	literal	0
The substantive content of much of this research straddles the social, environmental and mathematical sciences.	literal	0
To model the dispersal of a plume of toxic gas generated by a chemical explosion and its impact on the surrounding area, for example, an understanding of atmospheric dispersion models, epidemiology and population distribution would be required.	literal	0
In applications of this kind the authors argue that geographic information management in general and GIS in particular have an important role to play and they give a number of examples from research in progress to illustrate the current state of the art in this field.	literal	0
The discussion of operational problems and prospects further amplifies many of the issues raised in preceding chapters, particularly with respect to the problems caused by the dependency on secondary data sources and the need for much more detailed geographic information to overcome some of the problems associated with linking data sets.	literal	0
Like most of the other contributors to this section, Gatrell and Vincent see decision support systems as a major area for future development in the geographic information management field.	literal	0
Given that‘most GIS are rather dumb systems, requiring intelligent, very computer literate users’, managing natural and technological hazards means that this knowledge base must be built into the system so that it can be utilized quickly by untrained users after a disaster has taken place or in an emergency.	literal	0
The settlement and infrastructure field is also characterized by a wide range of users with a great diversity of interests.	literal	0
These include not only central and local government but also major utility companies and transport suppliers.	literal	0
According to Shepherd these users share a common need for up-to-date information on the amount, capacity and condition of urban land, transport networks, utilities, hospitals, schools and other major communal facilities.	literal	0
In addition to these data requirements, such users are also interested in developing their capabilities for modelling the changing relationships between the supply and demand for infrastructure in the context of both public and private sector decision-making.	literal	0
Shepherd, more than any other contributor to this section, draws attention to the extent to which current efforts in the geographic information  management field are constrained by the highly fragmented nature of both data suppliers and users both in sectoral and spatial terms, the great diversity of data sets in varying formats and the difficulties presented by institutional factors such as copyright provision, data ownership and the control of access to data.	literal	0
Digital data occupy a central position in this applications field and a number of examples are given to illustrate the extent to which their development has been hampered or facilitated in various countries by the policies of the organizations with responsibility for digital data provision.	literal	0
In Chapter 12 Brown reviews the development of geodemographics from its origins in the computer-based social area analysis of US census tract data from 1950 onwards.	literal	0
He describes the features of the four main systems that are currently in use in the UK and illustrates their application with reference to examples drawn from retail analysis and store location, market research, credit rating and target marketing.	literal	0
Brown demonstrates the extent to which the growth of research activities in this field has led to the emergence of improved cluster analytic methods for the multidimensional classification of people according to the type of area in which they live.	literal	0
In the last part of this contribution, Brown identifies a number of priorities for future research.	literal	0
Like Gatrell and Vincent and Shepherd before him, he is concerned with the lack of detailed geographical information particularly in this case with reference to the years between censuses.	literal	0
Spatial linkages also feature prominently in Brown's discussion which amplifies many of the points made in the earlier contribution from Openshaw in Chapter 3.	literal	0
The analysis points to the need for the development of a fuzzy geodemographics methodology which takes account of the effects of different types of spatial errors.	literal	0
Other major research priorities for the future in this applications field are the development of response-modelling techniques to explore the factors affecting consumer choice.	literal	0
This is particularly important in a field where many of the demands made by users are highly specialized in nature.	literal	0
In summary, then, as fig. 8.1 shows, many of the issues raised by this review of geographic information handling in the four potential application fields are essentially complementary to those discussed in the part on methodological developments.	literal	0
Spatial analysis features particularly prominent on the research agenda relating to natural and technological hazards and geodemographics.	literal	0
Questions relating to data integration emerge as being particularly critical in terms of environmental monitoring and settlement and infrastructure applications.	literal	0
Spatial linkages and questions relating to spatial representation feature prominently in the settlements and infrastructure and geodemographics fields.	literal	0
The evaluation of error propagation is a matter of considerable significance in the environmental monitoring and settlements and infrastructure fields.	literal	0
Finally, in all applications fields, the findings of the reviews above suggest that there is a need for improvements in user interfaces of all kinds.	literal	0
This is particularly evident in the demand for the development of knowledge-based decision support systems and modelling capabilities.	literal	0
Such demands highlight the extent to which geographic information management must be regarded as a means to an end rather than an end in itself when  viewed from the standpoints of the needs of planners and decision-makers.	literal	0
The final chapter in this section rounds off the discussion of applications-related research with an examination of organizational issues that need to be taken account of in handling geographic information.	literal	0
Campbell presents a conceptual framework for the analysis of the organizational issues involved in the development and implementation of GIS.	literal	0
This contribution cuts across many of the questions relating to particular applications that were raised in preceding chapters and draws attention to the dangers of neglecting institutional and personal considerations in practice.	literal	0
All too often, as the experience of many mature applications indicates, technical and data-related matters dominate the system development phase and technically elegant solutions are devised which fail to take enough account of user needs and capabilities.	literal	0
Campbell discusses the role of geographic information in organizations and the process of GIS diffusion drawing upon research from a variety of social science disciplines.	literal	0
The findings of the analysis are summarized in two sets of research questions for all applications fields.	literal	0
In this way she sets out a research agenda for applications-related research which serves a similar function to the spatial analysis research agenda set out by Openshaw at the beginning of Part Two. 	literal	0
Environmental monitoring and prediction	literal	0
David Rhind	literal	0
Introduction	literal	0
Monitoring of the state of and the changes in the environment is now universally recognized as being of profound importance to mankind(Tickell 1986, 1989).	literal	0
This awareness is most obviously manifested by the frequent appearance of press reports on ozone depletion, on the greenhouse effect and possible global warming, on nitrate pollution, on deforestation in the Tropics, on decreasing biological diversity and on many other environmentally related topics.	literal	0
Usually these reports concentrate on prophecies of a forthcoming Armageddon but many also describe a dire contemporary situation.	literal	0
Thus the algal bloom off the Italian Adriatic shore in 1989 is reckoned to have caused the holiday trade and local fisherman losses running into tens if not hundreds of millions of pounds.	literal	0
More globally, the Brundtland Report(WCED 1987) noted that, in the 900 days during which the World Commission was at work,	literal	0
1.	literal	0
The African drought put the lives of 35 million people at risk and may have killed 1 million of them;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
The Bhopal accident killed 2000 and injured 200 000 more;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
The Chernobyl disaster caused environmental damage across Europe;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
A chemical fire in Switzerland caused toxic materials to be transported by the Rhine at least as far as the Netherlands;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
At least 60 million people died of diarrhoeal diseases caused by malnutrition and dirty water.	literal	0
As a consequence of these and other disasters, of rapid and world-wide broadcasting of them and of the concerned action of many individuals, the environment is now‘moving fast up the political agenda’(Patten 1989).	literal	0
The then Prime Minister also emphasized the political awakening to the environment  in statements such as:‘it is possible that with all these enormous changes(population, agricultural, use of fossil fuels) concentrated into such a short period of time, we have unwittingly begun a massive experiment with the system of this planet itself’(Thatcher 1988).	literal	0
The political concern is not altruistic.	literal	0
Mrs Thatcher, a recent convert to environmental conservation, clearly held the opinion that environmental problems are not only soluble but that solving them can be shown to be cost-effective:	literal	0
In the past when we identified forms of pollution, we have shown our capacity to act effectively.	literal	0
The great London smogs are now only a nightmare of the past.	literal	0
We have cut airborne lead by 50 per cent.	literal	0
We are spending£4 billion on cleansing the Mersey Basin alone, and the Thames now has the cleanest metropolitan estuary in the world.	literal	0
Even though this kind of action may cost a lot, I believe it to be money well and necessarily spent because the health of our economy and the health of our environment are totally dependent upon each other….	literal	0
The Government espouses the concept of sustainable economic development.	literal	0
Stable prosperity can be achieved throughout the world provided the environment is nurtured and safeguarded(Thatcher 1988).	literal	0
The primary official manifestation of this UK commitment to the environment has been the government's White Paper(HMSO 1990).	literal	0
While criticized by many on the grounds that it had few‘teeth’ and represented a compromise between the DoE and all other departments(notably those of Agriculture and of Transport), it was none the less a major achievement.	literal	0
Its main sections dealt with the government's approach to the environment(nationally, at the European level and globally), the nature and effects of the greenhouse effect, environmental problems in both rural and urban areas(especially in relation to land-use matters), pollution control and enhancing awareness of environmental matters.	literal	0
Central to this approach is said to be an emphasis upon guidance from the best available scientific evidence.	literal	0
There is also a clear recognition of the need for monitoring and modelling of the state of the natural and man-influenced environment.	literal	0
Though there has been a change of Prime Minister and of the Secretary of State for the Environment since the publication of the White Paper, the environmental cause seems as strong as ever.	literal	0
Thus, The Times of 17 December 1990 reported that a group of 40 of the most senior Civil Servants had met the previous weekend to discuss‘ways in which the government machine could respond better to national and international problems such as the threat of global climate change’.	literal	0
Pearce et al.(1989) have argued that the effects of government, commercial and other actions on the environment can and should be assessed on a cost/benefit basis and this seems likely to be the basis on which at least the UK government will proceed.	literal	0
Given such a lead, it is scarcely surprising that British scientists have sought to demonstrate the practical and financial consequences of environmental events and processes; Table 9.1,     for example illustrates their perception of the importance of global environmental research to the UK domestic economy.	literal	0
If it now seems self-evident that monitoring of the global environment is necessary, indeed is even vital, the prediction of what is likely to happen is almost as important: the 170 000 people in the Maldives are understandably worried about the prospect of global sea-level change since no part of the islands is more than 2 m above present sea-level!	literal	0
Yet, as we shall see below, the prediction of the activities of natural and man-influenced environmental systems requires an understanding of the interaction of processes that, in many cases, we simply do not yet have.	literal	0
Even monitoring of the present is very imperfect, as witness the order of magnitude variations in estimates now current for deforestation rates.	literal	0
This chapter, then, attempts to review some of the problems in environmental monitoring and prediction, describes some of the relevant scientific and organizational activities and looks ahead to what is likely to happen next.	literal	0
The nature of environmental processes	literal	0
Notwithstanding Mrs Thatcher's confidence that we can‘fix’ environmental problems, the difficulties associated with a task even as apparently simple as monitoring a state variable are considerable.	literal	0
Some of the reasons for this— the difficulty of deciding on appropriate proxy variables and on economical yet non-biasing temporal and spatial sampling frameworks, taking account of the relative importance of aperiodic and rare events as compared to near-continuous processes, processing the vast volumes of data usually involved and organizing the multidisciplinary and(often) multinational researchers involved— are discussed briefly later.	literal	0
Even at this stage, however, it is important to stress that we have a very incomplete understanding of many  processes in the natural environment.	literal	0
The next section therefore attempts to summarize what we do know; it is derived chiefly from the Earth System Sciences Committee(ESSC)(1988).	literal	0
Temporal and spatial scales of operation	literal	0
Even ignoring the effects of man, earth system processes operate at a variety of spatial and temporal scales(see Fig. 9.1; see also Rosswall et al. 1988).	literal	0
Thus microclimate effects can have major short-term implications for local populations(such as those brought about by the photochemical smogs of Los Angeles), are often applicable only over areas of a few hectares or less and may operate on a diurnal cycle.	literal	0
In contrast, soil creation(cf. soil degradation) may require hundreds or thousands of years.	literal	0
In between are variations in phenomena such as El Nino.	literal	0
The sampling theorem indicates that we must sample these phenomena at a frequency of no less than half their wavelength if we are to avoid bias in measurement.	literal	0
In this chapter, the primary concern is with changes occurring over time spans from minutes to centuries and from spatial wavelengths from about 1 m to about 100 km.	literal	0
It is, however, impossible to separate out processes acting at different scales and over different periods: a single volcanic eruption lasting hours or days sometimes leads to dust and gas being ejected into the atmosphere over a period of months and this in turn may lead to global climatic fluctuations over years or decades.	literal	0
Conversely, a large-scale and long-period phenomenon   such as the movement of tectonic plates can lead to local stress accumulation and to its release by an earthquake in a few seconds and with highly local effects.	literal	0
This therefore has the following consequences:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
We should know something about the periodicity of the variables we are monitoring if we are not to risk either unnecessarily detailed data collection or aliasing of trends;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
Since we know that the periodicity of some variables is longer than the monitoring already carried out by human beings, we must make use of surrogate or proxy variables to extend our range of knowledge(such as via tree rings, palynology, oxygen isotope ratios from ice cores and geomorphological evidence of environmental change);	literal	0
3.	literal	0
Since we are not yet able to predict all the interactions which may be important in a study of environmental problems, collecting potentially useful data as well as those believed central to the problem under study is often wise;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
We must accept that most data collection exercises will inevitably be a compromise on the grounds of cost and hence less than perfect data sets will be produced;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
Irrespective of the use of surrogates, monitoring environmental processes only makes sense over time-scales which are extended by human standards(hence the IGBP(see below) is designed to run for two or three decades);	literal	0
6.	literal	0
Changes in political priorities may simply result in the need for informed guesswork if suitable data are not available.	literal	0
Much attention will be given throughout this chapter to monitoring the environment on a global basis.	literal	0
This is not merely because of its topical nature.	literal	0
The main reason is that— though some problems are local and are best studied that way— many others(even involving a limited geographical extent) are best understood within a global framework.	literal	0
Thus no meteorologist would attempt to forecast the weather 2 or 3 days ahead without using a mathematical model based on observations from all around the world.	literal	0
Moreover, recent work has shown that much of the heat energy in the seas of the North Atlantic(every square kilometre of which gives off as much energy as a nuclear power station and hence influences our weather) is absorbed from sunlight in the tropical Pacific and is carried by ocean currents through the Drake Passage and up into the Atlantic.	literal	0
Thus, to understand some local and many regional, national and continental and all global environmental events, we need to have a global perspective and hold global databases(Rhind and Mounsey 1989; Mounsey and Tomlinson 1988).	literal	0
In no way, however, does this invalidate the need for microscale studies— for instance, while global data sets may indicate the extent of algal blooms and may suggest causes of them, only detailed study of the algae themselves can provide understanding of why the bloom is occurring. 	literal	0
The processes themselves	literal	0
A major complication, however, is that the environment can rarely be treated as in a laboratory experiment.	literal	0
Given this, determining the nature of the interactions between the variables becomes a matter of major difficulty.	literal	0
Figure 9.2 is taken from ESSC(1988) and is an attempt to show the interactions between environmental processes, as well as the indicators and implications of change in the state of the environment.	literal	0
In essence, the figure can be summarized as showing processes within the physical climate system and within the biogeochemical one, these systems being interwoven by the global role of water and increasingly affected by human activities.	literal	0
The main components of the first system are well known: the atmosphere is its engine and atmospheric circulation is driven by differences in solar heating between the equatorial and polar regions.	literal	0
We are, however, becoming ever more aware of the massive influence of oceans on our climate; research into ocean/atmosphere interactions is now a priority.	literal	0
In ocean dynamics studies, important topics are heat storage, circulation and the role of sea ice.	literal	0
Atmospheric circulation(and, in turn, precipitation and temperature) is also greatly affected by the balance of thermal energy at the land surface, itself affected by the vegetation and terrain characteristics.	literal	0
The biogeochemical system embraces the totality of the movements of the key elements essential to life— carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and others— through what has been described as the total earth system.	literal	0
The oceans and their biota play a central role in the carbon and nutrient cycles; global ocean circulation is also critical to the global carbon budget.	literal	0
Trace gases in the atmosphere are key components of the cycles of such elements as carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur and the halogens; as is now well known, their concentrations are much influenced by biogenic and anthropogenic activities and the concentrations of such gases as carbon dioxide, ozone, methane, nitrous oxide and the chlorofluoromethanes(CFMs) strongly affect radiative transfer and provide a link with the physical climate system.	literal	0
A particular cause for concern is that the concentrations of the two main CFMs is increasing by about 5 per cent per annum while the equivalent figures for methane, nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide are 1, 0.4 and 0.3 per cent.	literal	0
Finally, the chemistry of the stratosphere is dominated by the photochemical production and catalytic destruction of ozone.	literal	0
There are several important ways in which biogeochemical processes can influence climate and hence habitability(except where the latter is maintained at enormous cost).	literal	0
If, for instance, the concentrations of certain trace gases(see above) continue to increase, it has been predicted that the earth's surface temperature will increase by an amount comparable to that since the last major phase of the most recent glaciation(about 18 000 years BP)— though there is some dispute about the magnitude of the likely change.	literal	0
The converse case— the effect of physical climate changes on biogeochemical processes— is also of obvious importance: changes in annual averages and cycles of temperature and precipitation, together with the probabilities of    extreme events such as prolonged droughts or frosts, are major determinants of terrestrial ecosystem type, at least in areas largely unaffected by human activity.	literal	0
Human-induced changes to the environment have increased rapidly as a consequence of growing population numbers and of numerous developments in technology.	literal	0
fossil fuel combustion, for instance, has led to increased concentrations of sulphate in precipitation(’ acid rain') and many rivers, lakes and estuaries have been greatly affected by phosphates from agricultural, urban or industrial sources.	literal	0
It should be stressed, however, that— while the outlines of human activities are clear— there are still many uncertainties: for instance, we know that the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide has risen about 9 per cent since 1959.	literal	0
But calculations of the total carbon released by fossil fuel combustion imply that, if all such carbon remained in the atmosphere, the concentration would have increased by twice as much.	literal	0
The absolute difference between the two figures seems to be due to two different factors: absorption by the oceans and other reductions in carbon stocks in living biota, the latter being strongly affected by human activities since the Industrial Revolution.	literal	0
Does God play dice?	literal	0
Much environmental prediction is predicated upon a logical positivist or Newtonian deterministic basis.	literal	0
The environmental systems are effectively regarded as machines whose workings can all be discovered, described in differential equation form and whose future activities can thus be predicted in detail if their initial states are known.	literal	0
An argument by many atmospheric physicists, for example, is that shortcomings in the accuracy of weather prediction over periods of more than a few days largely results from the unsophisticated nature of existing models, the lack of suitable data and inadequate computer power(see Fig. 9.3, derived from Tyler 1989).	literal	0
In   contrast, the advocates of chaos theory(e.g. Stewart 1989) argue that some natural systems are so sensitive to tiny stimuli that even‘the faint beat of a butterfly's wing could be the ultimate trigger for a hurricane’.	literal	0
In essence, they argue that tiny differences in the initial conditions of many systems can lead to widely different outcomes since the systems exhibit stochastic behaviour within a deterministic framework.	literal	0
If so, there is little chance of making accurate long-term forecasts of these systems.	literal	0
This has been recognized by, among others, ESSC(1988).	literal	0
The authors of that report accepted that there is a theoretical limit of 2–3 weeks in explicit prediction of day-to-day fluctuations in weather because of the influence of small-scale turbulence within the large-scale dynamics; such limits imply that medium and long-term prediction must inevitably be stochastic.	literal	0
To complicate matters still further, however, it seems at least possible that the components of the earth system may best be predicted deterministically at some spatial and temporal scales but stochastically at others and that the basis of prediction will differ for different components.	literal	0
As an example, atmospheric temperature shows marked day-to-day variability, a strong seasonal cycle with some year-to-year variations, a weak minimum variability for 10–20 year averages and then increased variation again at longer time-scales(ESSC 1988).	literal	0
It need hardly be pointed out that coping with such multiple databases on which modelling is to be carried out is not a trivial exercise.	literal	0
Finally, it is perhaps worth concluding this section by emphasizing that there is still much controversy among the scientific community about the magnitude of many of the effects being discussed.	literal	0
In general, the research work of the international groups of scientists, including those involved in the Inter-Governmental Committee and in the UK's Inter-Agency Committee on Global Environmental Change, has progressively reduced the magnitude of the predicted effects of, for example, global warming.	literal	0
In giving the 1990 Robens Coal Science Lecture at the Royal Institution, Sir John Mason(a former Director of the Meteorological Office) urged caution in interpreting the results of the massive atmospheric and oceanic modelling exercises; as the equilibrium models are refined to take account of the thermal lag in oceans, etc., lower values of predicted changes are likely.	literal	0
Thus, while almost all scientists are— at the time of writing— convinced from the evidence that change in climate is under way and that regional effects may be much greater than the global average, the magnitude of the latter is now thought likely to be about half of what was predicted only 5 years ago.	literal	0
Who is involved and what is going on?	literal	0
If we consider the environment in the broadest sense, much monitoring of it has been in progress for many years and by an enormous diversity of organizations in the UK; these include the DoE, the Forestry Commission, the Nature Conservancy, the Health and Safety Executive, local authorities, the component members of the Natural Environment Research Council(such as the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology and the British Antarctic Survey), individuals or research groups in academia, the CEGB, the Friends of the Earth, and UK Centre for Economic and Environmental Development(CEED)(1989).	literal	0
The diversity of monitoring organizations seems just as great in other countries; numerous multinational organizations, both quasi-governmental(e.g. the UN Environment Programme(UNEP)) and non-governmental(e.g. the International Union for the Conservation of Nature(IUCN) and the International Institute for Environment and Development(IIED)) are also active in the field.	literal	0
Moreover, commercial monitoring of the environment is now also routine, notably to predict crop yields in the main grain-growing areas and hence facilitate the buying of futures.	literal	0
The international scientific involvement	literal	0
Scientists have both promoted and responded to the increasing interest in the environment.	literal	0
Thus, at the global scale, the International Council of Scientific Unions(ICSU) has endorsed the setting up of the International Geosphere Biosphere Project(IGBP) to‘describe and understand the interactive physical, chemical and biological processes that regulate the total Earth system, the unique environment it provides for life, the changes that are occurring in that system and the manner by which these changes are influenced by human actions’(Report of ad hoc Planning Group for IGBP 1986, quoted in IGBP 1988).	literal	0
Priority in the IGBP is intended to be given to those areas which deal with key interactions and significant changes on the time-scales of decades to centuries, that most affect the biosphere, that are most susceptible to human perturbations and those that will most likely lead to a practical, predictive capability for global change.	literal	0
This is to be put into operation by concentrating on four themes:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
Documenting and predicting global change;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
Observing and improving our understanding of dominant forcing functions;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
Improving our understanding of interactive phenomena in the total Earth system;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
Assessing those effects of global change which will be large scale and cause major modifications to both renewable and non-renewable resources.	literal	0
By 1990, IGBP had progressed as far as defining a set of seven core projects(IGBP 1990) addressing these four themes.	literal	0
In addition, plans for regional research centres and for the data and information systems for IGBP(known as IGBP-DIS) had been announced.	literal	0
The latter are particularly relevant to this chapter.	literal	0
Based in Paris and working under Professor I. Rasool, it is intended to concentrate on managerial and policy aspects of the task in the first 2 years(1990–92) but then to expand considerably thereafter.	literal	0
Tasks  agreed for the IGBP-DIS include making available a‘directory of data directories’ modelled on NASA's Master Directory, providing data sets for education and training and undertaking a land cover pilot study.	literal	0
Until 1990, remarkably little interaction had taken place between the‘hard science’ and the social science communities on global monitoring and prediction.	literal	0
It is noteworthy, however, that the Royal Society made a plea for just this type of multidisciplinary work in its submission on greenhouse gases to the House of Lords' Select Committee on Science and Technology(Royal Society 1989: 40).	literal	0
Fortunately, in addition to the actions of the world‘hard science’ community, a parallel effort is now being initiated by social scientists(Fuchs 1989; Jacobson and Price 1990).	literal	0
Currently this is organized and sponsored by the International Social Science Council(ISSC), the UN University and the International Federation of Institutes of Advanced Studies.	literal	0
Its objectives are to:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
Improve scientific understanding and increase awareness of the complex dynamics governing human interaction with the total Earth system;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
Study, explore and anticipate social change affecting the global environment;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
Identify broad social strategies to prevent or mitigate undesirable impacts of global change or to adapt to changes which are unavoidable;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
Analyse policy options for dealing with global environmental change and promoting the goal of sustainable development.	literal	0
Jacobson and Price(1990) provide a useful summary of the ways in which human factors contribute to, and are affected by, likely global changes; in particular, they stress the importance of the data-handling issues and the role of GIS in coping with some of the problems of data integration and manipulation.	literal	0
The ISSC proposed its own work programme in the Human Dimensions of Global Change in late 1990.	literal	0
While these organizations intrinsically have a world-wide membership and are concerned with research into global environmental change, others share the same interest but from a more restricted geographical base.	literal	0
A leading example of this is the European Science Foundation which has sponsored research programmes in both the physical and social science aspects of environmental change(ESF 1990).	literal	0
Governmental and political involvement	literal	0
The spread of environmental awareness is readily demonstrated: in 1972, 26 countries had environmental and natural resource management agencies whereas, a decade later the number was 144(WEC 1985).	literal	0
In most countries, the governmental and political concern with the environment has come somewhat later than that of scientists or concerned lay people: the early development of the Green Party in the Federal Republic of Germany  is something of an exception.	literal	0
Such a commitment to the environment is, none the less, both welcome and necessary if resources are to be made available to tackle existing, let alone forthcoming, environmental problems.	literal	0
The‘conversion’ of the UK government has been briefly described earlier; it is manifested in their July 1989 commitment to spend£10m. on climate change research in 1989/90 and the confident request to them from the Advisory Board for the Research Councils(ABRC) for an extra£11m. in 1990 and£13m. in the two succeeding years for additional environmental research.	literal	0
Perhaps the most significant development of all, however, is the increasing role of the European Commission.	literal	0
Their role in bringing environmental impact assessment(EIA) on to the statute book is well known, but the Commission has now made a proposal(CEC 1989) for the‘establishment of the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Monitoring and Information Network’.	literal	0
The Commission argues that there is at present no monitoring of environmental quality and trends on a European scale, nor any guarantee that the results of environmental monitoring will be comparable on a Community-wide basis(a realization brought about through the CORINE programme described later).	literal	0
The objectives of the new agency would be to assist the Community and the Member States to achieve the goals set out in the Treaty of Rome and in successive environmental action programmes; it must also, however, be seen in the context of the European Council's adoption on 2 December 1988 of the Rhodes Declaration on the Environment and the environment chapter in the Single European Act which comes into effect in 1992.	literal	0
The detailed specific roles of‘the System’(comprising both agency and network) are envisaged as:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
To provide the Community, the Member States and participating third countries with the objective(sic) information requested for the formulation and implementation of sound and effective environmental policies;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
In particular, to provide technical, scientific and economic information requested by the Commission in its tasks of identification, preparation and assessment of the implementation and results of environmental action and legislation;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
To stimulate the development and the application within the agency of techniques of environmental modelling and forecasting in order that adequate preventative action can be taken at the appropriate time;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
To help ensure the harmonization and comparability of environmental data in the Community as well as the integration of European environmental data into international environmental monitoring programmes, such as those established within the framework of the United Nations and its system of agencies.	literal	0
Considerable stress is laid by the Commission on collaboration with national data-gathering agencies and with states adjacent to the Community's borders.	literal	0
 It is envisaged that the totality of activities will extend the existing State of the European Environment report(CEC 1988) through addressing the issues of the quality and sensitivity of the environment and also the pressures upon it.	literal	0
Priorities for the new agency include study of atmospheric emissions and quality, water resources and quality(including the marine environment), soil erosion and pollution and important land resources, and biotopes and nature conservation.	literal	0
At the time of writing, the proposal has been approved and discussions are in progress on the location of the agency's headquarters.	literal	0
It seems certain to have major and growing effects upon environmental monitoring and prediction in Europe and on the policies of component governments.	literal	0
Yet this is by no means the only plan which the Community has in relation to the environment: Directorate-General XII(that for Science, Research and Development) has published details of an extensive R&D programme(CEC 1990a) and the Commission as a whole(CEC 1990b) has made public its plans to develop regular official statistics of the environment.	literal	0
The private sector	literal	0
Certain aspects of environmental monitoring have long been carried out by the private sector, notably that of crop states on a world-wide basis.	literal	0
Derived from satellite imagery at comparatively low resolution, predicted yields for different crops in different nation states become of commercial value.	literal	0
However, significant resources are also being made available by the private sector where there is no immediate commercial gain: thus IBM UK Ltd has donated£3.5m. of computing equipment to UNEP and IBM in general is actively supporting other R&D which can be expected to facilitate‘sustainable development’: IBM Europe, for instance, has invested$16m. in its Bergen scientific centre to make it the focal point for the company's environmental modelling and a centre for information on the environment and sustainable development.	literal	0
On a more modest basis, IBM UK have agreed to fund a pilot global population database being built in Birkbeck College to permit assessment of the impact of environmental change on the world s population.	literal	0
Many other companies, of course, are supporting environmental work but IBM seems almost to be unique in its corporate commitment to use of high technology for facilitating‘sustainable development’.	literal	0
Some examples of environmental monitoring projects	literal	0
The local scale	literal	0
At the local scale, it is usually impossible to neglect the effects of multiple processes operating.	literal	0
An example of environmental modelling and prediction  where the interactions between different processes and dynamic feedback is taken into account is given by Haber and Schaller(1988).	literal	0
Their work formed part of one UNESCO Man and Biosphere(MAB) project, carried out in the Berchtesgaden National Park in Bavaria.	literal	0
Following Holling(1978) and Grossman(1983), they conceptualized the man/environment relationship at a series of hierarchical levels:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
The lowest, or process, level, is directly and(usually) obviously connected to perceived reality.	literal	0
Thus processes and interrelationships are mostly obvious, simple and linear; data are usually readily available and may be voluminous.	literal	0
This level is readily handled in commercial GIS;,	literal	0
2.	literal	0
The intermediate, or dynamic, level is concerned with less frequent and often irregular events, e.g. a temporary lack of water because of fire, frost or excessive demand from an increasing populace.	literal	0
Characteristically, the data used may be more difficult to obtain and are usually more spatially aggregated; modelling software which permits feedback loops is essential;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
The top, or strategic, level is the most difficult to explore; the external influences are often unpredictable by formal means.	literal	0
Relevant data are therefore difficult to identify and scenario building is one of the few approaches available.	literal	0
The Haber and Schaller approach is to‘soft-couple’ these different levels and their accompanying approaches using an ecological balance model.	literal	0
Results of running this with different scenarios include‘time slice’ maps of possible outcomes and of the exchange of material and energy within the study area.	literal	0
While ultimately qualitative, it seems to offer a method for coping with different types of process and incorporating stochastic and truly random events.	literal	0
The national and continental scale: the CORINE project	literal	0
The CORINE programme represents the product of much activity by the European Commission's Directorate-General(XI) for the Environment.	literal	0
It originates from an Italian request to the Council of Ministers in 1973 to identify environmentally‘balanced’ and‘unbalanced’ areas in the Community; the first attempts to do this were unsuccessful and, though by 1981 it was clear that a new approach based on an environmental information system was the most promising one, funding for this was not secured until 1985.	literal	0
A 4-year experimental programme to‘collect, co-ordinate and ensure the consistency of information on the state of the environment and natural resources in the European Communities’ was set up and labelled CORINE.	literal	0
The objectives of CORINE were to be achieved through bringing together existing data holdings in the member states, developing methods for holding, analysing and presenting the data, and encouraging the exchange of data.	literal	0
A  number of priority areas were identified, including biotopes of importance for nature conservation, acid deposition and its effects on soils and biotopes and the protection of the environment of the Mediterranean region(Briggs and Martin 1988).	literal	0
Many achievements can be claimed by the CORINE project team.	literal	0
As a result of some 40 sub-projects involving all the Member States(and often several groups within each one), databases of topography, soils, water resources and quality, biotopes, atmospheric emissions, climate, soil erosion and administrative boundaries have been built up for the whole Community and can be interrelated; other data sets(such as land cover, derived from satellite imagery) have already been compiled for some of the Member States.	metaphorical	1
Various aspects of the CORINE project have been described in papers by Rhind et al.(1986), Wiggins et al.(1987), Briggs and Martin(1988), Briggs and Mounsey(1989) and CEC(1990c).	literal	0
For the present purposes, however, the key findings are:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
Many necessary data sets were unavailable for reasons of administrative inadequacies, confidentiality constraints, cost or non-collection in certain countries;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
The unavoidable reliance upon existing data sets led to many problems due to non-harmonization even of commonly used variables, e.g. eight different definitions of potential evapo-transpiration were in use in the Member States and‘maximum temperature’ at each weather station was defined in at least four different ways;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
The compilation of a spatially coherent database from mapped information compiled by different organizations at different scales and on different topographic bases(see Rhind and Clark 1988) is often difficult;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
User expectations are often unreasonably high; use of administrative computing systems encourages bureaucrats to believe that environmental data can just as readily be analysed and used to support decisions.	literal	0
The‘fuzzy’ nature of much geographically distributed data, the inherent errors in it, the effects of the processing algorithms used and the assumption of known interactions between variables ensures that completely routine use by unskilled users is unlikely to be possible in the foreseeable future;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
More detailed data are required for particular tasks as the role of CORINE grows.	literal	0
The European Commission's proposal for an environment agency(see above) will subsume the CORINE team and databases.	literal	0
The global scale: NASA and GEMS/GRID	literal	0
Without question, the largest‘player’ in the global environment arena is NASA.	literal	0
The organization has initiated many of the schemes which now are  under discussion— the IGBP, for instance, has been strongly influenced by NASA proposals.	literal	0
A summary of current activities and future plans is given in NASA(1988b).	literal	0
By way of example, current programmes are collecting global data on stratospheric ozone, on sea-surface and sea-ice variables and on the earth's radiation budget.	literal	0
Approved future programmes include the Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite, the NASA Scatterometer and the joint NASA/CNES Ocean Topography Experiment.	literal	0
In addition, however, funding has recently been approved for a much more ambitious scheme— the Earth Observing System(EOS).	literal	0
This is conceived not as a set of hardware but as a comprehensive information system focused on the needs identified by the ESSC(see above) and anticipating somewhat those of IGBP.	literal	0
It will collate data from the two proposed space station polar platforms, one European Space Agency platform, a Japanese one and also from the manned space station.	literal	0
On this basis, a data flow of no less than 1 terabyte(i.e. 10&sup12; bytes)/day is anticipated by the mid-1990s.	literal	0
A major user of NASA data and skills has been the UN Environment Programme.	literal	0
formed in the wake of the 1972 Stockholm conference, UNEP soon spawned the Global Environment Monitoring System(GEMS) as well as an international register of potentially toxic chemicals and a global network of sources to locate and provide technical, scientific and management information on the environment.	literal	0
The need for a mechanism to handle the global environmental data was defined in the early 1980s and the Global Resources Information Database(GRID) resulted.	literal	0
Mooneyhan(1988) has described the progress of the pilot stage of GRID which culminated in approval for a full operational phase; GRID is now involved in integrating, storing and exploiting a variety of global environmental databases, mostly acquired from NASA.	literal	0
In addition to the work being carried out in the UNEP HQ at Nairobi and in the GEMS/GRID site in Geneva, a series of GRID regional nodes are now being set up world-wide, each equipped with the same hardware and software and local subsets of the data.	literal	0
The first of these is in Bangkok and another is to be opened in Latin America.	literal	0
Moreover, national nodes are also being set up; the recent IBM gift to GRID(see above) has ensured that powerful microcomputers have been installed in many African countries, together with national and continental data sets.	literal	0
Training of unskilled staff to operate this equipment and to exploit the scientific data is now a major role for GRID staff.	literal	0
Technical aspects and problems	literal	0
It follows from much of the above that there are major challenges in use of environmental data.	literal	0
These are best considered by itemizing characteristics of contemporary environmental monitoring and prediction:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
The use of secondary data, rather than primary data collected by the data analyst;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
The need, at least with data on the terrestrial environment, for an inference process to extract useful information from the secondary(and often proxy) data;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
The data volumes collected are often voluminous even by the standards of contemporary computing facilities;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
The analyses carried out are often arcane in detail to all but a small group of‘high priests’;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
We have only a limited capacity for checking the accuracy of many environmental monitoring results, let alone of predictions.	literal	0
Some of these characteristics are now addressed in slightly more detail; it will be obvious that such problems merit a paper in themselves.	literal	0
Remote sensing as a data collection process	literal	0
As the need for more extensive, high-resolution yet consistent and up-to-date data becomes more pressing, increased use of remote sensing seems inevitable.	literal	0
No other data collection methodology obviates the short distance variation in data sets induced by variations in data collection and aggregation methodology typically encountered between adjacent nation states.	literal	0
The problem is now recognized, especially in Europe, and strenuous efforts are being made to harmonise the data sets(e.g. through the use of standard classifications, such as that for land use produced by the Conference of European Statisticians in 1989).	literal	0
At present, however, ground-collected environmental data are far less than ideal.	literal	0
Recognizing this, NASA(1988a) concluded that forthcoming global science projects would need land surface altitude data at three resolutions: 1 km resolution in XY and 10–100 m resolution in Z on a global basis, 100 m XY resolution and 1–10 m resolution in Z for regional databases and 10 m XY resolution and 0.1–1 m in Z for local studies.	literal	0
They argued that existing maps and digitized files from them are unable to meet these needs at global or regional scale and only remote sensing could help in the short term: the availability of stereometric data from the French SPOT satellite has already led to proposals for automated creation of global digital elevation models with a spatial(XY) resolution of about 30 m(Muller 1989).	literal	0
For many terrestrial purposes, however, a substantial inference process must take place to convert the radiometric measurements into useful information(in contrast, more direct measurements of sea state, etc. are possible).	literal	0
The value of this information is inherently dependent upon the quality of the inference process and that in turn depends upon the complexity of the scene, the spatial, temporal and spectral resolution of the sensors and the particular algorithms used.	literal	0
Thus far, for instance, accuracies of land cover(let alone what is often needed, i.e. land use) determined from Landsat and SPOT imagery for the UK have rarely been higher than 70 per cent unless trivial classifications(e.g. built/unbuilt land) have been used.	literal	0
One  solution to this is to‘densify’ the ground control and another is to use contextually based classifiers rather than the traditional, spectrally based ones.	literal	0
But the ground conditions in some parts of Europe make good results extremely difficult to obtain: some areas of Portugal, for instance, have field sizes of only a few metres and exhibit multi-level and multi-seasonal cropping.	literal	0
A further difficulty is the cost of the data in relation to its anticipated benefits.	literal	0
Relatively few cost/benefit studies have yet been carried out except in such areas as crop prediction and ocean navigation(where they are generally shown to be highly advantageous in saving someone else's money).	literal	0
It may be that a study commissioned from contractors by the British National Space Centre will provide useful evidence on the cash value of remote sensing; it is particularly timely in view of the appointment of Professor Pearce(see above) as the adviser to the UK Secretary of State for the Environment.	literal	0
Other work on assessment of costs and benefits of such data have been carried out for the French government by Professor Didier(1990).	literal	0
Finally, since data are often costly to acquire, it follows that summaries of them e.g. The State of the European Environment report(CEC 1988) and the Environmental Data Report of the UN EP(GEMS MARC 1989) are of considerable value.	literal	0
Equally, the‘signposting’ role now being adopted by UNEP's GRID project— which is expected to offer on-line access to a catalogue of environmental data sets and details of the responsible agencies in 1991— is to be welcomed.	literal	0
The data problem and partial solutions	literal	0
The lack of harmonization of definitions and methods of collection of environmental data have already been outlined above.	literal	0
In the European Community of 12 nation states, for instance, no less than eight procedures for calculating potential evapo-transpiration have been in use!	literal	0
The need for harmonization is obvious and, in this respect, must follow from the successful pioneering achievements of EUROSTAT in harmonizing the definitions in trade, demographic and other‘social science’ statistics(see CEC 1990b).	literal	0
An additional and severe problem is that the volumes of data which are already collected are huge by the standards of only a decade ago.	literal	0
By 1995/96, they will be very much greater, notably from the EOS programme.	literal	0
NASA has announced plans to collect up to 1 terabyte(10&sup12; bytes)/day.	literal	0
Since remote sensing data sets(especially those pertaining to terrestrial areas of the globe) typically need much pre-processing to calibrate, transform and then perform an inference process and hence convert measurements of the radiation reflected or emitted by small areas of ground into useful(e.g. land cover) data, the processing power required is going to be formidable.	literal	0
Other, non-remote-sensing data sets are smaller in volume but  more complex in structure and in their characteristics.	literal	0
To hold all of the 1/50 000 scale topographic map coverage alone for the European Community would probably require about 3 terabytes of storage.	literal	0
Parenthetically, the form in which the data may be held can affect dramatically the scale of the problem faced.	literal	0
It would be technically possible, for instance, to hold in less than 1 terabyte detailed information for every individual in the world, akin to that collected about everyone in the UK through the Census of Population.	literal	0
In practice, legislation generally forbids such data being held thus and distributed in anything other than area aggregate form; the cross-tabulations commonly employed(e.g. to give tables of population numbers broken down by age and sex) often result in a great multiplication of the data volumes.	literal	0
This all presents major problems of data storage, handling(especially for global data sets), display and dissemination.	literal	0
Fortunately, technical developments have ensured that the increase in computing power per unit cost has been growing at about an order of magnitude every 6 years over the last three decades.	literal	0
Indeed, this may grossly under-represent the present situation: the rapid spread of UNIX-based systems seems to facilitate competition and, at the time of writing, performance of workstations per unit cost seems to be increasing at about 50 per cent per annum.	literal	0
Moreover, the advent of low-cost, high-density-storage devices like CD-ROMs may well make substantial data sets available even to those with modest computing power: a CD-ROM, for instance, can hold about 600 megabytes(i.e. 10&sup6; bytes), can be reproduced currently for about£1 and read on a device costing about£400.	literal	0
Yet, despite such revolutionary changes in technology, novel solutions will still be required to make effective use of the new data sets.	literal	0
One such solution is Goodchild and Yang's(1989) scheme for a hierarchical spatial data structure to handle data for the spherical earth.	literal	0
A particular problem is that little or no quantitative regard has been paid until recently to the effects of quality variation in environmental data.	literal	0
The literature of the last few years is thronged with papers proposing that these must be taken into account— but with few realistic proposals on how this is to be achieved.	literal	0
Goodchild(1988) has made perhaps the best summary of the problem and possible solutions to date.	literal	0
Finally, relatively little emphasis has been given to the management of data as a corporate resource, available to a wide community: many environmental data are collected on a project-by-project basis and‘lost’ once the urgency of the initial research is over.	literal	0
However, the 1990 report of the Data and Facilities Working Group of the UK Inter-Agency Committee on Global Environmental Change argued strongly that planning for the dissemination and maintenance of such data was a vital role.	literal	0
It also noted that ownership of and access to environmental data was a policy matter of the greatest importance; this may be more difficult in‘within country’ data than with global data since the latter are often already the subject of international exchange agreements at zero cost. 	literal	0
Global environmental research and the social sciences	literal	0
Thus far, the emphasis has been very much on the natural science aspects of environmental monitoring and prediction.	literal	0
That is unremarkable since the anticipation of such problems and assessments of some of their causes and magnitudes can only be made by environmental scientists.	literal	0
Yet the consequences of any significant changes are a matter of the utmost concern to planners and to politicians at all levels, the quantification of the costs and benefits of alternative policy strategies is very much a matter for economists, and the adaptation of societies to massive change is a particular interest to sociologists and others.	literal	0
For geographers— who span the conventional(and now archaic) dichotomy between the natural and the environmental sciences— all of these aspects need to be woven together to anticipate the likely spatial patterns of the effects of massive change, the redistributions in trade, health and wealth which they will bring about and the‘knock on’ effects these consequences themselves will have on society and the environment.	literal	0
For social scientists, then, environmental monitoring and prediction are a matter of considerable significance, especially as‘globalization’ of markets and economies proceeds.	literal	0
The Economic and Social Research Council(ESRC) commissioned two reports on global environmental change to guide or at least inform the allocation of research funding.	literal	0
These reports(Pearce 1990; Turner 1990) may be taken as informed views from at least the economists in the UK social science community on the social science aspects of global environmental change.	literal	0
Pearce(1990), for instance, presented an economist's views of the high-priority topics for research as follows:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
The theory and practice of international agreements, viewed in a game theory context;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
The theory of optimal behaviour under scientific uncertainty;,	literal	0
3.	literal	0
Cost-benefit frameworks, especially for dealing with man-induced climatic effects;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
Definition of the impacts of climate change on eastern Europe and the developing countries;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
Appropriate policies on non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gases;	literal	0
6.	literal	0
Assessment of the ecological values of tropical forest;	literal	0
7.	literal	0
Economic instruments for reducing greenhouse gases;	literal	0
8.	literal	0
The international politics of climate change;	literal	0
9.	literal	0
National and global energy options given the greenhouse effect;	literal	0
10.	literal	0
Trade and global change.	literal	0
Turner(1990) argued that the priorities are as follows:	literal	0
1.	literal	0
The socio-economic consequences of sea-level rise;	literal	0
2.	literal	0
Techniques for the valuation of environmental resources and effects;	literal	0
3.	literal	0
An assessment of management tools, institutional adaptation and policy integration in regard to global environmental change;	literal	0
4.	literal	0
Studies of agriculture in relation to climate change;	literal	0
5.	literal	0
Understanding of how environmental issues and technical change interact;	literal	0
6.	literal	0
The interrelationship between environmental ethics and economics.	literal	0
There is, then, no shortage of social science research which is claimed to be necessary if we are to cope with environmental change.	literal	0
Some of it is being carried out: in March 1991 ESRC announced a£6m programme of research on Global Environmental Change.	literal	0
However, perhaps most critical of all in the early stages is social science practice rather than research.	literal	0
In the USA at least, there needs to be an improvement in scientists' understandings of how to influence the allocation of funding for remedial measures or for further research(see Kitsos and Ashe 1989).	literal	0
All too often, it seems that the coupling of an as yet imperfect scientific understanding to policy-making is tenuous(see Table 9.2).	literal	0
Fortunately, considerable high-quality work has already begun on the legal, political and institutional aspects of global environmental change(see, for instance, Nitze 1990).	literal	0
What next?	literal	0
The contents of this chapter have scarcely touched upon such important environmental research as the World Ocean Climate Experiment or the World Climate Research Programme.	literal	0
Nor has there been any discussion of the growing requirement in the UK(as elsewhere) to carry out an environmental impact assessment for all major developments.	literal	0
The consequences for some nations or subgroups in a population of being without access to environmental data or the tools for analysing them while others have such access are potentially profound— as the European Commission has recognized in issuing  a directive on public access to environmental data(CEC 1990d)— yet space limitations have also precluded their discussion.	literal	0
Despite these shortcomings dictated by the space available, what has been said should be sufficient to illustrate the enormous and diverse scope of environmental monitoring and prediction.	literal	0
Such is its diversity that measuring the total expenditure on it seems quite impossible and the number of‘actors’ already involved is vast.	literal	0
What is clear, however, is that monitoring is rarely a simple exercise, that the time-scales of the sponsors of monitoring and environmental research are rarely long term though most science is inevitably of this nature and that the increasingly multinational nature of such work necessitates a degree of management not always present in local or nationally based schemes.	literal	0
In these circumstances, it is scarcely surprising that there is evidence of international and interdisciplinary dispute, as Terney(1989) has chronicled in regard to IGBP.	literal	0
Moreover, as Newby(1990) has pointed out, the complexities of environmental research have created a new kind of relationship between research and policy:‘in the past,… the relationship was predicated on the belief that science provided decision-makers with objective‘hard’ facts on which to base their soft, value-ridden policies….	literal	0
But now we find scientists delivering only‘soft’, uncertain‘facts’ to decision-makers facing‘hard’ decisions.’	literal	0
Yet, even if all of this causes great uncertainty among scientists, it is still a reasonable prediction that a decade ahead will see both environmental monitoring and prediction treated as an everyday need and activity in major organizations.	literal	0
We shall also see the existence of binding requirements upon national governments— certainly in the European Community— to collect at least basic environmental indicators in a harmonized form(CEC 1990b).	literal	0
More than that, it seems highly likely that the social science aspects of environmental problems will underpin the actions of governments and international agencies.	literal	0
Perhaps the single most important conclusion to be drawn from this review is that the monitoring, modelling and management of the global environment are tasks which uniquely require the integration of skills and techniques from many disciplines.	literal	0
Building such research teams is essential.	literal	0
Underlying it all, however, is one obvious fact: that the gathering and analysis of geographically distributed environmental data form the necessary starting-point for ensuring the success of our future on earth.	literal	0
Acknowledgements	literal	0
Thanks are due to Tina Buckle and Jonathan Raper for remastering the diagrams.	literal	0
The UK ESRC supported the work of the South East Regional Research Laboratory in Birkbeck College, University of London, from which this review has grown.       	literal	0
Managing natural and technological hazards	literal	0
Anthony C. Gatrell and Peter Vincent	literal	0
Introduction	literal	0
Few areas of the application of GIS technology can be as socially significant, or environmentally relevant, as the management of emergencies and disasters due to natural and technological hazards.	literal	0
Whether attempting to construct a database of resources for use in planning responses to nuclear emergencies, developing optimal routes for scheduling the safe transport of hazardous substances, or monitoring the health implications of a disaster, GIS can assist in identifying possibilities and formulating solutions.	literal	0
The 1990s have been declared the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction.	literal	0
Let us hope that G1S can, in some small way, help mitigate the suffering and hardship felt by all those afflicted by the effects of hazards which, as we have learnt with bitter recent experience in the UK, can occur in an untimely fashion in the most improbable of places.	literal	0
Research on hazards is multidisciplinary and straddles the social, environmental and mathematical sciences.	literal	0
If, for instance, we wish to model the dispersal of a plume of toxic gas resulting from a chemical explosion, assess its possible impact on human health and evaluate likely evacuation scenarios of the population at risk we would require, for example, a knowledge of atmospheric dispersion models, epidemiology and population distribution.	literal	0
Some researchers suggest that hazards(and emergencies that might result) can be regarded as either natural or technological.	literal	0
We shall elaborate on this simple division below but suggest here that the wealth of literature on the former(see, for instance, Burton et al. 1978 and Perry 1981) has yet to be matched by a similar volume of work on the latter.	literal	0
There are signs that this imbalance is being rectified(Zeigler et al. 1983).	literal	0
Hazard research, like few other GIS application areas, is not only stretching the present technology to its limits but is a quite remarkable focus of international effort into several important research-related areas such as   expert systems and simulation studies.	literal	0
In this sense the scene is clearly one of hazard problems looking for improved GIS rather than for GIS looking for good problems, as is all too often the case.	literal	0
Hazard research	literal	0
What are hazards?	literal	0
Formally, a hazard can be defined as:‘a physical situation with a potential for human injury, damage to property, damage to the environment, or some combination of these’(Health and Safety Executive 1989: 30).	literal	0
A hazard is a threat which, given a set of circumstances, may become translated into a realized event.	literal	0
What we choose to call this event depends upon factors such as its magnitude: we speak for instance of accidents, emergencies, disasters and catastrophes, each of which carries connotations concerning the scale of the event and each of which will have a set of human and/or environmental consequences.	literal	0
On 30 March 1956 one of the most powerful volcanic disturbances this century, the Bezymianny eruption, occurred.	literal	0
Few people noticed the event as it took place in an uninhabited part of Kamchatcka and caused no known casualties.	literal	0
In contrast, the extrusion of a small volume of lava from a secondary cone on the slopes of Tristan da Cunha became the focus of global interest when, during October 1961, the island's lobster processing plant was smothered and the 300 people of the island's only settlement were evacuated to the UK.	literal	0
These two contrasting events emphasize the central fact that even natural hazards are not defined solely by the characteristics of the event but by the interaction of those events with the human occupation of the threatened area.	literal	0
As noted above, the simple division of hazards is between those which are natural and those which are technological or human-induced.	literal	0
Each of these may be further subdivided and the typology shown in Fig. 10.1 draws upon the classic work of Burton and Kates(1964) in separating geophysical from biological hazards and Zeigler et al.(1983) in distinguishing public(or what we might call societal) hazards from private(individual) ones.	literal	0
The further subdivision of natural hazards is self-explanatory as is that of individual technological hazards.	literal	0
Zeigler divides the public hazards into those which result from the production of raw materials and manufactured goods, those which originate in transport and transmission and those which threaten the public in their role as consumers.	literal	0
The United Nations Disaster Relief Organization(UNDRO) has produced a classification of disasters, derived on the basis of case data(Table 10.1).	literal	0
UNDRO recognizes three basic types of disaster: accidents, natural events, and other disasters.	literal	0
The differentiation of accidents from other types is useful in the context of emergency planning and is not so clearly conveyed by other     hazard typologies.	literal	0
However, the temptation in all classification exercises is to produce partitional schemes and this should really be resisted here.	literal	0
It is more useful(Johnson 1983) to adopt a non-partitional scheme(fig. 10.1) that recognizes, for instance, food poisoning as both a personal and consumer hazard, or lead pollution(e.g. from car exhausts) as both a meteorological event and technological hazard(both public and private).	literal	0
An air crash(as at Lockerbie) affects an entire community directly, as well as being an occupational hazard and risk to the individual traveller.	literal	0
Hillslope failure(as   at Aberfan in South Wales in 1966) is a geomorphic hazard but may arise because of raw material extraction.	literal	0
Dutch elm disease is a floral hazard but is exacerbated by the transport of infected logs.	literal	0
Hohensemer et al.(1983) make the important point that hazards are multidimensional in nature and suggest 12 dimensions along which any hazard may be scored(see Table 10.2).	literal	0
These factors will, of course, be important in deciding on the role that GIS can play in hazard monitoring and emergency planning.	literal	0
For instance, some events will persist briefly, have immediate consequences, minor transgenerational effects and have little or no potential for non-human mortality(an air crash is an example).	literal	0
Others, such as a chemical explosion involving the release of a toxic gas, may persist for a week or more, have delayed consequences, may affect a future generation if the toxic chemical is mutagenic and may have a significant impact on plant and animal populations.	literal	0
There may be more scope for a GIS approach in the latter than in the former situations.	literal	0
The Hohensemer scheme is not, however, beyond criticism.	literal	0
for example, can hazards really be thought of as having any intentionality?	literal	0
Industrial hazards and risk assessment	literal	0
Once hazards have been identified there may follow efforts to assess the hazard risk.	literal	0
By‘risk’ we understand‘the likelihood of a specified undesired event occurring within a specified period or in specified circumstances’(Health and Safety Executive 1989: 30).	literal	0
It may, of course, be easier to quantify risk for natural hazards because of historical records and statistical estimation of recurrence intervals.	literal	0
Technological hazards are more unpredictable and may be extremely rare, so that it becomes difficult to use probability concepts to quantify risk, especially those which rely on notions of relative frequency.	literal	0
The identification of chemical hazards requires that the locations of sites be known, together with the dangerous substances stored or processed  there.	literal	0
In the UK(see Petts 1988 for a splendid overview) the Health and Safety Executive must be notified of sites where hazardous substances in excess of threshold limits are handled.	literal	0
Such substances and thresholds include, for instance, 25 tonnes of flammable liquid petroleum gas and the explosive sodium chlorate, and 10 tonnes of toxic chlorine gas.	literal	0
Some 1600 installations are notifiable, along with thousands of kilometres of pipelines(mostly high-pressure natural gas transmission lines).	literal	0
Following a number of major accidents involving industrial activities(including those at Flixborough, Humberside in 1974; Beek, the Netherlands in 1975; and Seveso and Manfredonia in Italy in 1976), the EC issued a Directive on Major Accident Hazards.	literal	0
The Directive, which is commonly referred to as the‘Seveso’ Directive, was issued in June 1982 and in the UK its requirements were embodied in the Control of Major Accident Hazard(CIMAH) Regulations(1984).	literal	0
Among other things, these regulations require operators of hazardous installations to draw up on-site and off-site emergency plans and to give information to members of the public who live or work near such installations(Houston 1987).	literal	0
There are presently about 300 CIMAH sites.	literal	0
However, many potentially hazardous chemical installations are not covered by such regulations.	literal	0
Clearly, a plant which stores 1 tonne less than is required for notification slips through the net, while large numbers of handling sites(warehouses, for instance) are not covered.	literal	0
The regulations have obvious implications for G1S work, as illustrated below.	literal	0
In Halton Borough, Cheshire, for instance, there are 13 notifiable installations, with over 20 000 people living within the defined‘consultation zones’(Petts 1988).	literal	0
It is also relevant to point out here the work of the Health and Safety Executive in developing techniques for quantitative risk assessment(Health and Safety Executive 1989).	literal	0
Such techniques include the use of a‘risk assessment tool’(RISKAT), inputs to which include data on wind direction and speed; the output of which is a map of calculated risk contours.	literal	0
In societal risk assessment‘it is also necessary to input data on the distribution of population around the installation.	literal	0
This can be a difficult and time-consuming process, and inevitably some simplifying assumptions are needed’(Health and Safety Executive 1989: 17).	literal	0
Again, the G1S implications are clear and are discussed below.	literal	0
Hazardous waste disposal	literal	0
The disposal of both nuclear and non-nuclear wastes has proved to be of major public concern in recent years.	literal	0
The rather clumsy handling by NIREX of the search for sites to store low- and intermediate-level wastes, together with very recent worries about the import of toxic wastes such as polychlorinated biphenyls(PCBs), are but two examples of such concern in the UK.	literal	0
However, while the former has been given considerable attention by geographers(summarized by Openshaw et al. 1989) there has been relatively little such work in the UK on the disposal of non-nuclear wastes.	literal	0
This  contrasts with the situation in the USA(Greenberg and Anderson 1984), where the clean-up of abandoned sites is a priority.	literal	0
Certainly, in terms of the volume of waste generated in the UK non-nuclear hazardous industrial wastes should be high on the environmental agenda; while less than 1 million tonnes of all nuclear wastes were generated in 1985–86, 10 times that amount were generated of hazardous wastes(Openshaw et al. 1989: 13).	literal	0
Attention should be drawn to the three Annual Reports of the Hazardous Waste Inspectorate(now merged with other branches of the DoE to form Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Pollution).	literal	0
These contain some valuable material on disposal practices, and volumes of waste generated and disposed of by each waste regulation authority(WRA)— counties in England, districts in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.	literal	0
Each WRA is required to produce a waste disposal plan and these are starting to appear.	literal	0
They too contain useful material on, for instance, the locations of sites, though individual site licences must be consulted for details of what each is permitted to take in the way of hazardous wastes.	literal	0
What is not known is information on the locations of former sites, at which quite toxic materials may have been dumped, though recent work by Egger(1989) in Austria has mapped a vast number of such sites.	literal	0
It is these, rather than existing, licensed sites which should be a focus of research activity, particularly when examining possible links to ill health.	literal	0
We simply do not have enough evidence yet to back up the claim that‘people are almost certainly ill, dead, or dying because of these sloppy waste disposal activities’(Openshaw et al. 1989: 12).	literal	0
Research is in progress, however, to assess possible health effects of poor incineration(Diggle et al. 1990).	literal	0
Particular attention should be focused on hospital incinerators, since these have been subject to Crown immunity for many years and most are technically ill-equipped to burn at sufficiently high temperatures for adequate disposal of wastes(Gatrell and Lovett 1991).	literal	0
We need to produce an inventory of all such sites, together with a publicly available, comprehensive database on all sites accepting hazardous industrial wastes.	literal	0
Emergency planning	literal	0
It is convenient to retain the nuclear/non-nuclear distinction when discussing the background to emergency planning.	literal	0
Nuclear emergency planning in the UK has been reviewed by Matthews and Pepper(1981).	literal	0
Nuclear power stations must prepare a plan and submit this to the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate and Health and Safety Executive for approval.	literal	0
Evacuation plans are required to cover an area within a distance of 2.4 km; these detail the roles to be played by the emergency services.	literal	0
The very narrow emergency planning zones contrast with those in the USA(Collins 1981), where planning is required up to 16 km from the site to cover exposure to radiation plumes.	literal	0
Local authorities in the UK that have declared themselves‘nuclear-free’ have been highly critical of British planning, calling for an extension of emergency zones to at least 24 km.	literal	0
Zeigler et al.(1983) should be consulted for material  relating to evacuation behaviour in the wake of the incident at Three Mile Island.	literal	0
In the UK little work of any description seems to have been done on human behaviour in the aftermath of releases of hazardous substances, nor is much available on public attitudes to emergency planning.	literal	0
Indeed, no major studies of evacuation due to hazards have been undertaken in recent times and this is a widely recognized deficiency which no research funding body seems willing to rectify.	literal	0
In the USA on the other hand, a good deal of useful research in these areas has been undertaken.	literal	0
This research is brought together in very useful reports produced by the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Tennessee(Sorenson et al. 1987; Vogt and Sorenson 1987) and the Disaster Research Centre, University of Delaware.	literal	0
Perry(1985) has written an interesting book on emergency planning and evacuation, covering both natural and technological hazards.	literal	0
For him, comprehensive emergency planning and management involve: prevention, protection, response and restoration.	literal	0
By prevention we understand the elimination or reduction in risk, perhaps by adequate zoning or safe routeing of shipments, for instance.	literal	0
Included in protection are methods for detecting likely hazard events and in warning those likely to be affected.	literal	0
Response includes search and rescue(including the need to cope with secondary threats such as contamination of water supplies after an explosion, or fire following an earthquake).	literal	0
As Perry and others have noted, relatively few resources are devoted to the first two aspects, the bulk going to response and restoration(rebuilding).	literal	0
It should be clear from this brief description that these issues are inherently geographical.	literal	0
In one of the few studies of evacuation behaviour after a non-nuclear hazard event Liverman and Wilson(1981) give weight to this argument.	literal	0
In 1979 a train carrying chlorine, liquid petroleum, toluene and propane was derailed in Mississauga, Ontario, causing a series of explosions.	literal	0
This led to the evacuation of 250 000 people which, although staggered over several days, led to great pressure on transport arteries.	literal	0
An important finding was that many relied on their own transport and went to stay with friends and relatives some distance away, rather than relying on the 19 official evacuation reception centres.	literal	0
Despite this, the evacuation was successful, partly because the accident occurred at a weekend and the immediately affected area was sparsely populated.	literal	0
In addition, the police were well prepared, stimulated largely by implementing a plan designed more to cope with an emergency at the nearby Toronto International Airport than for the event in question.	literal	0
It is not without interest to note that in the USA there is a Federal Emergency Management Agency(FEMA), established in 1978, charged with dealing with all types of emergency planning and management.	literal	0
In the UK there is no equivalent, though the spate of disasters in the past 4 years(involving over 1000 lives lost) has led to several calls for such a national body to be established. 	literal	0
Natural hazards	literal	0
In this short space it is not possible to go into any depth on the nature of particular natural hazards but only to highlight those aspects relevant to GIS.	literal	0
Needless to say, the study of natural hazards is important, a statement brought into sharp focus by the fact that natural hazards account for up to 4 per cent of total deaths in the world each year(Mitchell, 1974).	literal	0
In 1970, for example, more than 200 000 people died in the cyclone and flooding of Bangladesh and in 1979 the hurricanes David and Frederick caused more than$3bn damage in the USA.	literal	0
Shah(1983) made a comprehensive investigation of natural disaster reports for the period 1974–80 and concluded that both disaster frequency and magnitude(measured in terms of lives lost) are increasing.	literal	0
High death tolls are still a characteristic of less developed, low-income countries.	literal	0
Surprisingly, fog is the third most important hazard in Europe after floods and volcanoes.	literal	0
Research on natural hazards has a long tradition in geography going back more than half a century.	literal	0
Much of the impetus for such research arose in the USA from observations on river basin management and the need to reduce flood damage.	literal	0
The vast majority of natural hazards studies have ignored the physical nature of the events per se and have concentrated on behavioural issues such as the perception and estimation of hazards.	literal	0
This emphasis is partly due to the background of the researchers involved(many are human geographers and sociologists) and partly because it is only really since the Second World War that major hazards have been monitored systematically, culminating, of course, in the last decade or so in the use of satellite technology.	literal	0
Brief reference to two examples of natural hazards may illustrate the potential relevance of a GIS approach, applications of which are considered below.	literal	0
Jones et al.(1989) have examined the distribution of some 8500 landslides in the UK.	literal	0
Their maps show clearly an increased propensity for landsliding in the north and west of the UK.	literal	0
More to the point, however, is the fact that this distribution can be modelled in terms of slopes, rainfall, rock types and so on.	literal	0
In other words the actual hazard distribution can be understood and areas at risk identified.	literal	0
The potential benefits to insurance companies, engineers and planners are clear.	literal	0
Second, a well-known winter hazard in the UK, with marked spatial localization, is fog.	literal	0
Predictive models of its distribution have clear implications for road and air safety.	literal	0
Perry(1981) describes a fog potential index that is a function of local topography, environmental features affecting fog formation and distance from standing water bodies.	literal	0
Reliance is currently placed on a network of monitoring stations, often sparsely located and frequently outside fog-prone areas; GIS could implement a predictive model based on digitized map features and indeed the model could also be used in site allocation studies for airports and the like.	literal	0
The majority of natural hazard research has focused on single hazards but of course any area may be prone to more than one hazard type.	literal	0
This idea led Hewitt and Burton(1971) to develop the concept of‘all-hazards-at-a-place’.	literal	0
 To achieve this they concentrated on the whole spectrum of damaging events in an area and explored their aggregate impact.	metaphorical	1
The implications for GIS in the development of‘hazardousness’ indices are obvious and if time-series data are available there is the potential to produce a variety of probability maps.	literal	0
The collection of historical data on natural hazards is important since it is clear that their spatial pattern varies through time.	literal	0
Many areas that appear to be hazard-free on current maps may merely by passing through a temporary period of quiescence.	literal	0
This is perhaps best illustrated with reference to earthquakes.	literal	0
For example, in 1692, the whole of southern England was affected by an earthquake whose epicentre was located in what is now Belgium; a good deal of minor structural damage was inflicted(Morse 1983).	literal	0
Presumably the builders of the Channel Tunnel are aware of this?	literal	0
Environmental epidemiology	literal	0
This is, of course, a vast subject area, embracing the impact of the natural and technological environments on human health.	literal	0
It covers, for instance, the associations between water and air pollution and ill health, links between geological and pedological environments and ill health, as well as associations between specific technological hazards(e.g. high-voltage power lines) and possible health effects.	literal	0
We can only consider a small fraction of this work here; little consideration is given to occupational environments, for instance.	literal	0
In the UK such research is widespread though there are specialist environmental epidemiology research institutes at Southampton and Cardiff(funded by the Medical Research Council), and others at the University of Surrey(Robens Institute) and at the London School for Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.	literal	0
The latter houses the Small Area Health Statistics Research Unit(SAHSRU), which has a specific remit to conduct research into morbidity and mortality at local scales(Elliot 1988).	literal	0
The SAHSRU liaises closely with OPCS.	literal	0
The kinds of databases used by these groups are discussed below.	literal	0
Greenberg(1983) and a collection of papers in Greenberg(1987) review some of the literature on environmental epidemiology.	literal	0
It seems worth stating at the outset that there are two ways geographical research in this general area can proceed.	literal	0
One is to collect morbidity and mortality data(usually the latter is more widely available, though the former more useful) and to examine spatial distributions for clustering.	literal	0
This has itself generated a substantial literature(see the papers in Elliot 1988 for an overview) and is nowhere better exemplified than in Openshaw's geographical analysis machine(see Ch. 2).	literal	0
We then search retrospectively for evidence of possible environmental associations.	literal	0
An alternative approach is to begin by hypothesizing an environmental determinant of ill health and to collect data to test an explicit hypothesis.	literal	0
If an association is suggested then we would want to collect data in other areas to assess the hypothesis further.	literal	0
Of course, these  two approaches are not clear-cut in practice; in many cases the hypotheses of interest will have themselves been generated by inductive mapping.	literal	0
One example of an hypothesis which has been given serious attention in recent years is the possible link between electromagnetic fields generated by high-voltage power lines or supply cables and ill health.	literal	0
Some work(Perry et al. 1981) suggested associations with mental illness and suicide, while others(e.g. Wertheimer and Leeper 1982) have examined links to various cancers, including leukaemias.	literal	0
A good bibliography is provided in Perry and Pearl(1988).	literal	0
The Central Electricity Generating Board(now privatized and split into two companies) is funding a large-scale, 2-year project to assess links to childhood cancer, while another recently announced study aims to look at links to sudden infant death.	literal	0
One obvious problem, with implications for any GIS input, is that the effects are highly localized, with little measurable field effect more than a few dozen metres away from the route centre-lines.	literal	0
Accuracy of digital data collection(either of the power lines or residential locations) is paramount.	literal	0
There seems to be a growing interest in examining associations between ill health and the geological environment.	literal	0
GIS work in this field(e.g. Matthews 1989) is reviewed later, but we note here the work of the applied geochemistry group at Imperial College(responsible for a series of atlases on regional geochemistry) and the existence of a Society for Environmental Geochemistry and Health.	literal	0
One area of recent debate concerns radon gas and its links to lung cancer.	literal	0
This is taken very seriously in the USA, where the Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 10 000–20 000 deaths from lung cancer each year are due to radon gas exposure.	literal	0
Estimates from Scandinavia suggest that 10–30 per cent of such deaths are caused by exposure to radon(Richardson 1988: 270–81).	literal	0
The gas is trapped in well-insulated houses and is produced by the decay of uranium in rocks and soil; thus it has been measured at high concentrations in parts of Cornwall and Devon.	literal	0
There are great difficulties in assessing health effects, however, since exposure varies greatly from house to house within small neighbourhoods.	literal	0
Carefully designed case-control studies are therefore required to measure the separate effect of radon exposure after controlling for smoking behaviour and other risk factors.	literal	0
Other health concerns which might merit attention by those involved in the Regional Research Laboratory(RRL) initiative include air and water pollution.	literal	0
The debate about lead pollution from vehicle exhaust emissions is well known; less publicity has been given to PAHs(polychlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons), a product of combustion processes and known to be carcinogenic(Lioy and Daisey 1987).	literal	0
Research at the North West Regional Research Laboratory(NWRRL) aims to create buffers around busy roads and junctions and to use data from the Cancer Registry to examine possible links between proximity to such sources of pollution and prevalence of lung cancer.	literal	0
Those with an interest in health and air pollution should note the availability of a very detailed database from the Warren Springs Laboratory, containing details of smoke and sulphur dioxide emissions at a large number of sites in the UK.	literal	0
The possible link between nitrates in water and stomach cancer is  the subject of much debate(Beresford 1985), as is the association between aluminium content and Alzheimer's disease.	literal	0
The problems of assessing such links are, of course, huge, but there is scope for a contribution.	literal	0
The role of GIS in hazard management scenarios— examples	literal	0
As we have already implied, GIS has a role to play in all aspects of hazard research, from hazard monitoring, risk assessment and emergency planning to coping with an event and evaluating its consequences.	literal	0
The examples described below illustrate all these, though as yet there do not appear to be many instances of disasters in the management of which GIS has played a significant part.	literal	0
Technological hazards, emergency planning and GIS	literal	0
A considerable amount of research has been undertaken to apply GIS methods to evacuation scenarios around hazardous sites.	literal	0
Much of this research has concentrated on network analysis of the road system.	literal	0
Reference was made above to so-called CIMAH sites, major hazardous installations for which on-site and off-site emergency plans must be prepared.	literal	0
Early research at the NWRRL focused on developing a GIS for use by the police and county emergency planning officers in Cumbria that would aid in the management of a possible explosion at a chemical factory in Whitehaven, west Cumbria(Vincent et al. 1988; Dunn 1989).	literal	0
The police required a portable system that could be implemented on an IBM-compatible microcomputer.	literal	0
This was written at the NWRRL using FORTRAN 77 and the Graphical Kernel System.	literal	0
The GIS is menu-based and is exceptionally user-friendly(Pl. 10.1).	literal	0
It opens with an outline map and the superimposition of the rather rigid zones used by the emergency planners.	literal	0
Full zoom facilities are available at any stage.	literal	0
In any emergency it is of course vital to have high-quality data on the distribution of population and resources.	literal	0
The system incorporates digitized data on the distribution of all domestic and non-domestic properties in the town together with digitized road centre-line data.	literal	0
Both sets of data were provided by Pinpoint Analysis Ltd, who are undertaking this digitizing task for the entire country.	literal	0
Other spatially referenced data incorporated into the system include those on the distribution of schools, medical and transport services which can be displayed and supplementary information about them obtained.	literal	0
The GIS permits population estimates to be made for any arbitrary rectangular region on the map.	literal	0
Most significantly, it incorporates a shortest path algorithm which uses the road network to find optimal routes between user-defined start and end nodes.	literal	0
Although predating the RRL initiative by several years— and, indeed the emergence of GIS as a major research area— we should remind ourselves  of Openshaw's work on appraising nuclear reactor sites.	literal	0
Using what would now be called GIS skills, Openshaw(1980) examined over 13 000 1 km grid squares in the UK which intersect the coastline and related these to data from the 1971 Census(which were made available for such grid squares).	literal	0
He demonstrated that there is an abundance of‘remote’ sites, in contrast to the official view that such sites were increasingly hard to find.	literal	0
He suggested that in early spatial searches for sites‘only a small number were ever identified in the first place because rigorous searches could not be performed by manual means with poor quality data’(Openshaw 1980: 289).	literal	0
Heywood and Cornelius(1989) have shown how GIS can be used for monitoring possible radiation releases and thus the relevance of GIS in nuclear emergency planning and monitoring.	literal	0
They propose a national radiological spatial information system and, in a pilot project in Cumbria, have integrated several layers of data within ARC/INFO to show what this might involve(Fig. 10.2).	literal	0
Such data include those from the Population and Agricultural Censuses as well as point data from rain gauge sites and radiation monitoring stations.	literal	0
As an example, the system is used to determine restriction zones for the movement of sheep after the explosion at Chernobyl in 1986.	literal	0
This is done by finding areas of high rainfall and parishes with high sheep populations.	literal	0
The map overlay of point and area information shows generally good agreement with the restriction zones imposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, with the exception of a small area to the south-east of Cumbria, bordering on Lancashire.  	literal	0
The British government carried out a review of its arrangements for handling nuclear accidents overseas following the Chernobyl accident.	literal	0
The DoE, through Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Pollution(HMIP), was given the task of co-ordinating a national response plan, installing the radiation monitoring network and acting as lead government department in an emergency(HMSO 1988).	literal	0
The monitoring network has become known as the radioactive incident monitoring network(RIMNET) and has, as its prime responsibility, the detection of abnormal increases in radiation levels within the UK of the kind that might arise from an overseas nuclear accident.	literal	0
The full implementation of the RIMNET system will take some time.	literal	0
By the end of 1988 gamma radiation dose monitors had been installed at 46 meteorological stations as part of phase 1 of the development programme.	literal	0
Radiation readings are taken every hour at each station and are transmitted to a central computer which analyses the data.	literal	0
The current criterion for alert is two readings of more than three times normal background, either successively at the same site or simultaneously at two adjacent sites.	literal	0
The dissemination of information in the event of an incident is dealt with at three levels: the first is the normal system of press notices; the second is the use of teletext and viewdata(Ceefax and Prestel) to get direct to members of the public at their homes or places of work; the third is the use of Telecom Gold electronic mail to get more technical details to various official bodies, such as water authorities(Jackson 1989).	literal	0
Phase 2 of the RIMNET scheme will be completed by the end of 1991 when between 80 and 90 monitoring sites will have been established.	literal	0
Given very wide regional and local variations in deposition, questions must be raised about the effectiveness of such a small network; local authorities will need to supplement it with their own networks.	literal	0
There are important analytical problems to be addressed concerning the siting of such monitoring equipment and these are elaborated on later.	literal	0
Abroad, Kaspar(1981) has discussed a computer-based exercise, with GIS overtones, involving the simulated evacuation of the population living in the vicinity of the Neckarwestheim nuclear power plant in Baden Württemberg.	literal	0
In the scenario he outlines, an area affected by radioactive releases is determined, the population within that area is allocated to reception areas(with capacity constraints), evacuation routes are identified and traffic restrictions implemented.	literal	0
Little detail is provided, however, and it is thus difficult to evaluate his work fully.	literal	0
Dangermond(1985) describes the use of the ARC/INFO NETWORK module for use in emergency planning situations.	literal	0
He describes how a road network is digitized and subsequently analysed using allocation, districting and routeing algorithms.	literal	0
Allocation determines which arcs in the network will be allocated to a particular node or centre; districting makes it possible to outline rapidly sets of polygons in order to define specific areas of interest(districts) and to summarize their characteristics; routeing provides a minimum path algorithm through the network, the arcs of which can be assigned weights according to road conditions, road capacity and so on.	literal	0
 Dangermond gives several examples in his paper including the use of NETWORK for the allocation of emergency vehicles, optimum routeing of fire engines from garages to the accident scene and the movement of spills through sewers and river networks.	literal	0
When combined with the other facilities in ARC/INFO, quite complex disaster management scenarios can be handled.	literal	0
For example, earthquake fault zones can be combined with data on housing density and structural details to predict earthquake damage levels and these data then related to the network model.	literal	0
Vincent(1989) illustrates the use of ARC/INFO and its NETWORK module for finding safe routes for chlorine transhipment on the road and rail systems of north-west England(Pl. 10.2).	literal	0
In this case, population density data for a 1 km buffer on either side of network arcs were overlaid on the network itself so as to act as weights for the minimum path algorithm.	literal	0
Chosen routes were those which minimized population rather than distance.	literal	0
Hazardous waste disposal	literal	0
There can be little doubt that a GIS approach has wide applicability in all sorts of location problems where the goal is to minimize(rather than, as conventionally, maximize) accessibility to a population.	literal	0
A particularly good application is to the search for potential sites for the disposal of nuclear and non-nuclear(but none the less hazardous) wastes.	literal	0
We discuss here some relevant work on the siting of facilities for the disposal of nuclear wastes before examining those for non-nuclear wastes.	literal	0
The major contribution to informed debate about the search for sites for the disposal of nuclear wastes has come from a group of geographers(Openshaw et al. 1989) and a GIS approach to this problem can pay high dividends.	literal	0
The work of Carver(see Openshaw et al. 1989: Ch. 7) is an interesting example.	literal	0
One advantage is the ability to model a range of alternatives by allowing particular criteria to enter or be omitted from the polygon overlay operation.	literal	0
Conceptually, what is offered is little more than an automated‘sieve mapping’ that land-use planners have used for many years, but the whole procedure is speeded up by many orders of magnitude using GIS software.	metaphorical	1
The authors examine both near-surface sites and deep repositories(which use more restricted population criteria and allow offshore locations to enter).	literal	0
Data layers include geological maps, conservation areas, transport routes, petrochemical facilities and demographic data.	literal	0
As different layers are added sequentially we see how the proportion of available land shrinks(Pl. 10.3); for instance, when geological criteria are set in the search for a deep repository, 25 per cent of land area remains and the addition of the population density layer reduces this to 24 per cent.	literal	0
However, adding a proximity to transport constraint lowers this to 12 per cent; and so on.	literal	0
We can not pretend GIS is a solution to the political problems of negotiation and justification but at the very least the openness of the procedures goes some way towards satisfying a worried public. 	literal	0
GIS research into site selection for non-nuclear hazardous waste has been almost exclusively conducted in North America and has yet to be matched in the UK.	literal	0
Jensen and Christiansen(1986), working in the south-eastern USA, use a raster approach(with a pixel resolution of 20 m&sup2;) and Boolean overlay to‘weed out’ particular sites, such as those which are poorly drained, environmentally sensitive or inaccessible(see also Stewart 1987).	literal	0
Environmental monitoring of sites for the disposal of toxic waste is of particular concern in the USA.	literal	0
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act(CERCLA) legislation of 1980(‘Superfund’) requires the cleaning up of the worst landfill sites, of which some 800 had been identified by the Environmental Protection Agency by 1986(Foresman 1986).	literal	0
A major worry has been the threat posed by groundwater pollution and some research has been conducted on using GIS to monitor this(Merchant et al. 1987; Barringer et al. 1987; von Braun 1988).	literal	0
This is an important topic since 95 per cent of rural households in the USA consume only groundwater, while half the US population consumes at least some groundwater(Merchant et al. 1987).	literal	0
Clearly, the research demands access to exceptionally good environmental data, usually in three dimensions.	literal	0
As Foresman(1986) suggests, we might expect remote sensing technology to play a major role.	literal	0
Merchant et al.(1987) for example, use the image processing system ERDAS to construct an index of vulnerability to groundwater pollution; this uses variables such as depth to water table, soil type, slope and so on(see Estes et al. 1987 for a similar approach).	literal	0
Barringer et al.(1987) overlay data on soil type and geology with that of groundwater quality(hardness and corrosivity measures) and build a linear model which shows that the background environmental variables are good predictors of the water quality indices.	literal	0
Again, a raster-based approach is used.	literal	0
A further example is work by von Braun(1988) who uses pMAP to look at exposure of organic and metallic compounds in groundwater in the vicinity of Tucson airport, Arizona.	literal	0
Using plume models that predict the movement of contaminants she is able to intersect the results with data on current well locations and to assess which water supply areas are worst contaminated.	literal	0
Overlaying the results with residential location data provides‘maps delineating location-specific exposures for each residence in each time-period’(von Braun 1988; 1160).	literal	0
In principle, it is then possible to compare such‘doses’ with epidemiological data, once again indicating a link from a hazard event to assessment of health outcomes.	literal	0
Attention should be drawn to Foresman's comment that the US Geological Survey(USGS)(at the EROS Data Centre) have successfully linked ARC/INFO to a model of groundwater flow(Foresman 1986: 260).	literal	0
This kind of link between GIS and other modelling programs is to be warmly welcomed and parallels work at the NWRRL in linking GIS and air pollution plume models. 	literal	0
Natural hazards and disaster management	literal	0
Several studies in recent papers have shown the effectiveness of GIS in mitigating the effects of major natural hazards.	literal	0
Berke and Ruch(1985), for example, describe a GIS for assessing the impacts of hurricanes on the Texas Gulf coast.	literal	0
Hurricane damage through high winds and tidal surges causes an immense amount of destruction and poses a major threat to many coastal communities in the USA.	literal	0
It has been estimated, for example, that during the mid 1970s some 50 million US citizens were subject to hurricane winds of over 160 km/h and 6 million were subject to hurricane surge(Brinkman 1975).	literal	0
The system described by Berke and Ruch(1985) is raster-based and has an interesting modelling component called SLOSH(Sea, Lake and Overland Surges from Hurricanes).	literal	0
SLOSH is able to estimate still water surge by grid cell for various hurricane intensities, angles of approach to the shoreline, forward movement speeds and landfall locations.	literal	0
Additional algorithms are used to model total building damage costs for each grid cell based on water-depth and speed-depth rating curves.	literal	0
Hobeika and Jamei(1985) describe the MASSeVACuation(MASSVAC) simulation software designed to analyse and evaluate traffic evacuation plans given a natural disaster in an urban area.	literal	0
The system comprises three interrelated modules: community and disaster type characteristics module; population distribution module; network evacuation module.	literal	0
The type of natural disaster determines the time period within which the road network has to be evacuated.	literal	0
The control and management strategies are directly correlated to each specific disaster scenario.	literal	0
MASSVAC is quite flexible and various user-defined road network options are available such as: traffic signal timings on the road network; one-way traffic; reserved lanes for special vehicles such as those of the emergency services.	literal	0
Hobeika and Jamei have tested MASSVAC on various evacuation scenarios for Virginia Beach City in order to determine evacuation times for flood and hurricane conditions.	literal	0
In general, they suggest that the model provided reasonable and reliable evacuation times.	literal	0
Southworth et al.(1989) have enhanced the MASSVAC model with the addition of a colour graphics module which they call MVOPL.	literal	0
This module has been developed using IBM's Graphics Kernel System and provides a number of display screens.	literal	0
The most interesting are those which portray population flows as scaled ribbons on the network diagram, and evacuation shelter capacities as bar diagrams.	literal	0
The diagrams are updated periodically during the course of the simulation.	literal	0
In dry parts of the world, such as Australia, forest and bush fires are an important natural hazard and some attention has been given to the ways in which GIS might help examine their potential impacts.	literal	0
Kessell(1988) describes a PC-based GIS called PREPLAN(PRistine Environment Planning LANguage) which is a natural area management, land-use planning and fire modelling system developed for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, PREPLAN comprises four modules: a simple raster-based GIS; a grid cell resource database; a wide range of vegetation, fuel, fire behaviour,  erosion and land-use models; tabular, statistical and colour graphics output system.	literal	0
With this system real-time fire growth can be modelled, taking into account changes in terrain, fuel and temporal changes in the weather.	literal	0
Kessell points out that uncontrollable fires are recurrent phenomena in many parts of Australia, causing damage in the hundreds of millions of dollars and significant loss of life.	literal	0
Systems such as PREPLAN can provide the user with sound models of the behaviour patterns of fire and are therefore of enormous value in land-use planning.	literal	0
One of the most widespread natural hazards is flooding, and the potential for loss of property, risk to life and general social disruption is large.	literal	0
One interesting example of a GIS approach to flood damage estimation is the ANUFLOOD package which was developed in the early 1980s following detailed flood damage studies for flood-prone coastal towns in northern New South Wales, Australia(Smith and Greenaway, 1988).	literal	0
The ANUFLOOD system requires locational and building type data on individual properties, stage-damage curves relating the average damage that would result from overfloor flooding to differing depths for each property type, and lastly, flood frequency in terms of flood height expressed as a probability.	literal	0
Output from the system is both tabular and graphical.	literal	0
Of particular interest is the construction of maps showing the expected annual amounts of damage for gridded flood-prone areas.	literal	0
ANUFLOOD also contains modules which permit the investigation of various flood damage mitigation options, such as property height raising, levee construction and flood proofing.	literal	0
Environmental epidemiology	literal	0
The possibilities sketched above relate to emergency planning, the search for hazardous sites, and risk assessment.	literal	0
To what extent can GIS help if an event occurs?	literal	0
What, for instance, of the health consequences?	literal	0
There is a rich tradition of epidemiological work in geography and with the increasing availability of spatially referenced medical data the scope for GIS applications is wide(Gatrell 1987).	literal	0
For instance, Diggle et al.(1990) assess the hypothesis that cancer of the larynx is associated with proximity to a now-closed incinerator and develop a statistical model from the theory of spatial point processes to test this.	literal	0
This would have been impossible without the link provided from postcoded data(increasingly available from sources such as cancer registries) to Ordnance Survey(OS) grid references.	literal	0
Such a link is provided by the Central Postcode Directory, which matches all 1.5 million unit postcodes in the UK to grid references.	literal	0
When the cases of laryngeal cancer are compared with a null distribution(provided by the distribution of much more common lung cancer) the hypothesis is given strong support.	literal	0
Although the proposed method is novel, it is but one of an increasingly large number of methods designed to detect and model‘clusters’ of disease(see, for example, Cuzick and Edwards 1990).	literal	0
The work of Diggle et al.(1990) examined only a single point source,  though it generalizes to multiple sources and to linear hazards as well.	literal	0
As a second example of health work linked to hazard studies we may cite the research being conducted by Cross(1989) on childhood leukaemia.	literal	0
There are numerous hypotheses concerning the aetiology of this disease(from ionizing radiation to viral transmission) and Cross's approach is to collect digital data designed to test some of these hypotheses and to use ARC/INFO to display and analyse results.	literal	0
For instance, one hypothesis concerns the role of electromagnetic radiation, a source of which is overhead high-voltage transmission lines as noted earlier.	literal	0
If these are digitized and buffer zones constructed around them(Fig. 10.3) we can quite easily test hypotheses about prevalence in such buffer zones as compared with prevalence outside.	literal	0
However, we should bear in mind the earlier point about the resolution of the data, since such electromagnetic effects have a very weak effect beyond perhaps 50 m(Wertheimer and Leeper 1982).  	literal	0
There has been a suspicion for many years that high rates of stomach cancer in parts of Wales may be linked to soil chemistry, specifically such factors as zinc/copper ratios, and to lead content in water supplies.	literal	0
Matthews(1989) has used data from the Regional Cancer Registry(morbidity rather than mortality data) and data on trace elements to examine this link.	literal	0
Since the latter are available for a 5 km raster the registration data are assigned to these grid squares using the OS grid reference.	literal	0
As with any such study there are the usual problems of ecological analysis and influences of migration, together with issues of separating out the risk factors under investigation from possible confounding factors.	literal	0
In the USA, Morrill's report on the beginnings of a$15m. study into the possible radiation doses received as result of radiation releases by the Hanford(Washington State) nuclear complex would seem to cry out for GIS skills to be applied(Morrill 1989).	literal	0
The research project will employ plume dispersion models in order to model dispersal by wind and will need to integrate this and other environmental data with detailed demographic records.	literal	0
To some extent this line of approach was anticipated by Johnson(1981) in his study of exposure to plutonium fall-out from the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant near Denver(see Zeigler et al. 1983: 47–8).	literal	0
Using soil samples he constructed a contoured risk surface and then mapped excess cancers in various distance bands, detecting a marked distance decay effect.	literal	0
Research problems and prospects	literal	0
The work reviewed above suggests that the application of GIS techniques to hazard assessment, emergency planning and environmental monitoring is both actually and potentially an important research area with many challenging problems.	literal	0
Undoubtedly, the GISs of the 1990s will look very different from their rather primitive ancestors.	literal	0
Computer power is becoming cheaper, digital data more readily available, and GISs are becoming hybrid systems involving other technologies.	literal	0
In this last section we highlight some important research areas as we see them.	literal	0
Doubtless there are many others, such is the surge of interest in GIS technology.	literal	0
Data availability	literal	0
We should first consider the availability and quality of data concerning the populations who may be at risk from the storage and transport of hazardous substances, from toxic air pollution, from flooding and so on.	metaphorical	1
Such data are crucial, either for assisting the emergency services to make assessments about resources they need to deploy in such events, or for high-quality estimates to be made of risk.	metaphorical	1
Within the public domain in the UK we must rely in general on data from the most recent Population Census, the lowest level being that for enumeration districts(EDs).	metaphorical	1
As is well known(Rhind 1983) these contain  on average perhaps 150–200 households and 400–500 people.	metaphorical	1
The boundaries EDs have not been widely digitized, unlike the higher- level electoral wards.	metaphorical	1
However, the centroids of EDs are available as 100 m grid references and artificial ED‘polygons’ can be created if necessary.	metaphorical	1
In some instances such data will suffice; in many cases they will have to suffice as nothing better is available.	metaphorical	1
But in some areas EDs are very extensive physical units and the shapes will be quite distorted.	literal	0
Furthermore, the scales at which population estimates are often required means that even EDs are too coarse for risk assessments.	metaphorical	1
For instance, in performing its quantitative risk assessments the Health and Safety Executive will rarely deal with distances from hazardous sites in excess of 1 km(Petts 1988) and census data will not offer sufficient resolution for accurate population estimates to be made.	metaphorical	1
It should be pointed out, however, that the National Radiological Protection Board currently uses 1 km grid square resolution population data from the 1971 Census in its radiological protection studies(Hallam et al. 1981).	metaphorical	1
It would seem that, despite the costs involved, they should consider investing in the very detailed digital data(Pinpoint Address Code(PAC)) provided by Pinpoint Analysis Ltd.	metaphorical	1
This area of application would appear to be an obvious market for such a product.	metaphorical	1
A useful research exercise would be to compare the use of census and PAC data in deriving quantitative risk assessments and this is an interesting research problem.	metaphorical	1
Even with PAC data some assumptions would need to be made about numbers of persons per household if good population estimates were to be made.	metaphorical	1
More generally, we need to consider the availability of large databases for hazard studies and emergency planning and this is an area ripe for major initiatives.	metaphorical	1
In the UK we seem to be lagging well behind the USA in the construction of databases on hazardous sites and especially hazard events such as those involving toxic releases.	metaphorical	1
For instance, Lioy and Daisey(1987), in their work on the monitoring of toxic air pollution in New Jersey, construct what they term a‘microinventory’ for each of three towns, comprising the locations of chemical plants, metal processing plants, paint spray manufacturers and so on.	metaphorical	1
Some attribute information is available for these.	metaphorical	1
More closely linked to GIS is work by McMaster and Johnson(1986) who perform a very detailed inventory of hazardous materials(both stored and transported) in Santa Monica, California.	metaphorical	1
Although the raster displays are very crude it is simple to answer spatial queries concerning the locations of people(for instance, particular age groups) within certain distances of toxic hazard sites.	metaphorical	1
We have data on some hazardous sites(e.g. those regulated by CIMAH) in the UK but a much more comprehensive approach should be adopted, especially if we are serious in the search for environmental associations with chronic diseases.	metaphorical	1
The same is true for toxic releases.	metaphorical	1
In the USA the Environmental Protection Agency produces an Acute Hazards Events Database while the Department of Transportation has a database recording details of 25 000 releases of toxic materials; such details include locational information, type and amount of material released, mode of release and resulting injuries or  deaths(Cutter and Solecki 1989).	metaphorical	1
Can we not use GIS technology to construct‘risk mosaics’(Zeigler et al. 1983), at a variety of spatial scales, akin to Hewitt and Burton's‘hazardousness’ of a place?	metaphorical	1
In the UK only a handful of county emergency planning departments(Cumbria, for instance) have built up resource databases in digital form and this needs to be promoted.	metaphorical	1
Further afield, we need to recognize that some disasters(most obviously Chernobyl) will have implications for more than one country so that environmental monitoring should take place with some kind of international co-ordination.	metaphorical	1
There will also be movements of hazardous cargoes across frontiers and there are clearly problems of risk assessment and planning for emergencies at or near international boundaries, or at sea and airports.	metaphorical	1
As noted above, the work of Fedra(1989) is a major step in this direction, and links need to be forged between initiatives in the UK and the rest of Europe.	metaphorical	1
In terms of databases on hazardous wastes, attention has already been drawn to the waste disposal plans prepared by WRAs.	metaphorical	1
These give details of present site locations and some indication of permitted wastes, though little or no information on closed and abandoned sites.	metaphorical	1
However, for details of disposal the individual site licences must be consulted.	metaphorical	1
The former Hazardous Waste Inspectorate operated a large database on all sites, with details of permitted wastes, including allowable quantities.	metaphorical	1
The database was created by a commercial company, Aspinwalls Ltd.	literal	0
There are numerous potentially usable databases for environmental epidemiological work.	literal	0
OPCS, of course, is a major data repository for medical statistics and their various Monitor Series are of use, though only at the scale of district health authority and above(see Gatrell and Lovett 1988 for an example).	metaphorical	1
Regional health authorities will from time to time produce mortality data at ward level.	metaphorical	1
However, if cancers are of interest it is more appropriate to obtain data from regional cancer registries; these data are morbidity rather than mortality data and are therefore more valuable.	metaphorical	1
The data are postcoded and may have some occupational details.	metaphorical	1
For example, we have received data from the Regional Cancer Registry in Manchester comprising all cancers of the larynx and lung notified between 1974 and 1984.	metaphorical	1
This large data set, to which grid references have now been added, comprises information about nearly 40 000 individuals.	metaphorical	1
It has now been copied into INGRES, a relational database management system, permitting queries to be made about subsets of the data; for instance, all males between the ages of 25 and 64 suffering from laryngeal cancer.	metaphorical	1
Other data sources on cancers are independent registries of malignancies.	metaphorical	1
An example is that on leukaemias, managed by the Leukaemia Research Fund Centre in Leeds(Alexander et al. 1989).	metaphorical	1
It should be noted that there are frequently major discrepancies between the regional registries and the specialist registries, partly because the latter receive notifications directly from consultants.	metaphorical	1
Indeed, working directly with consultants proves invaluable in gaining access to high-quality morbidity data.	metaphorical	1
Two other potential sources of data are worth mentioning.	metaphorical	1
First, attention  should be drawn to the new directive from the Department of Health to regional and district health authorities to review the health of the population.	metaphorical	1
This means in practice that district medical officers are charged with preparing an annual report, presenting and interpreting epidemiological data, identifying local health problems and evaluating service outcomes.	metaphorical	1
Lancaster University is already heavily involved in the work of Preston District Health Authority in this area.	metaphorical	1
Second, family health service authorities(FHSAs), are also required to take on these roles, but from the viewpoint of primary health care services.	metaphorical	1
FHSAs(which correspond to non-metropolitan counties and to metropolitan boroughs) hold large databases on services provided by general practitioners; for instance, uptake of immunization and screening for breast and cervical cancers.	metaphorical	1
Is it, we wonder, possible to contemplate bringing together some of these data sources to form a National Online Health Information System(NOHIS), to parallel that for employment and unemployment(Townsend et al. 1987)?	metaphorical	1
This might include data on morbidity and mortality, uptake of preventative medicine, service use and availability, at both primary and hospital level.	metaphorical	1
It would be a useful management tool, particularly in view of the reorganization taking place in the National Health Service.	metaphorical	1
It should not be forgotten that hazards themselves have geographical distributions yet there has been little effort in the UK to develop public domain databases.	metaphorical	1
Are there hazard- prone areas?	metaphorical	1
Is there a regional differentiation in hazard type?	metaphorical	1
These are, of course, commercially important questions and a good deal of money is going into the collection of such data by insurance companies.	metaphorical	1
One well known database is Major Hazard Incident Data Service(MHIDAS) global industrial hazards database which is currently being developed by the Safety and Reliability Directorate on behalf of the Major Hazards Assessment Unit of the UK Health and Safety Directorate.	metaphorical	1
This system currently runs in dBASE II and contains in excess of 3000 items of professionally assessed information on major hazards coded into some 24 separate fields.	metaphorical	1
Unfortunately, the spatial referencing is poor and with some effort this could easily be remedied.	metaphorical	1
It is, for example, little use when recording a chemical spill into an Egyptian river to have entered into the appropriate field‘the Nile’— after all, this river is some 6480 km long!	metaphorical	1
Here, in our view, is a classic case of the absence of a geographical input rendering the data of limited value.	metaphorical	1
In some cases, good hazard data exist but have simply not yet found their way into a GIS.	metaphorical	1
A case in point is inland and coastal flooding.	metaphorical	1
Most river authorities have detailed maps showing the geographical limits of floods in relation to their return periods.	metaphorical	1
Within the next decade, as the privatized water companies develop their GIS, we shall see a massive amount of data conversion in this area.	metaphorical	1
This development, together with the availability of digital terrain models, will allow quite sophisticated flood forecasting models to be developed within a GIS framework.	metaphorical	1
As sea-levels rise in the next 20–30 years due to the‘greenhouse’ effect, this very practical use of GIS technology is likely to become commonplace and of considerable practical importance. 	metaphorical	1
Spatial statistics	literal	0
Another way in which there needs to be a rapprochement between statistical methods and GIS is in the area of spatial sampling and estimation from spatial samples.	metaphorical	1
This is clearly an important issue in radiation monitoring as the discussion of RIMNET above implies.	metaphorical	1
As an example, Peirson(1988) has reviewed the evidence on artificial radioactivity in Cumbria and shows maps of the distribution of certain radionuclides as contoured surfaces.	metaphorical	1
The point worth making here is that there are many alternative schemes for interpolating from irregular point data(Lam 1983).	metaphorical	1
One method in particular, kriging(now available as part of the UNIRAS software), offers not only a contoured surface but also an estimate of the standard error at any point on the map.	metaphorical	1
Where this is high it suggests that an additional sampling station might be set up.	metaphorical	1
Such techniques are now standard in environmental science(see Streit 1981 for an application to rainfall monitoring) and need to be promoted vigorously in hazard studies(Estes et al. 1987).	metaphorical	1
Related to this problem is that of making population estimates for new zones that result from overlay operations.	metaphorical	1
We may want to count numbers living within plumes, circles of fixed radius, buffer zones and so on.	metaphorical	1
Existing GIS techniques usually base the estimates on area-weighted shares, so that a new polygon created by‘slicing’ an existing area in half is assigned half the population of that source unit.	metaphorical	1
This may be quite absurd in some cases, notably where population is spatially clustered within a physically large ED.	metaphorical	1
At the NWRRL work is under way(Flowerdew and Green 1989) to solve such problems using the EM algorithm and the statistical modelling package GLIM, which has been interfaced with ARC/INFO.	metaphorical	1
Operations research methods and simulation	metaphorical	1
While there is some research activity in linking statistical models to GIS there would seem to be scope for further applications of operations research techniques to GIS problems.	metaphorical	1
Within some sophisticated GIS such as ARC/INFO there are some useful algorithms(such as shortest path calculations), but GIS developers have in general failed to realize the natural links between GIS functions and many operations research techniques.	metaphorical	1
Over the last 20 years or so a large theoretical literature has been developed to provide tools for the solution of many problems associated with emergency planning(Kolesar 1981).	metaphorical	1
One important class of problems is the selection of locations for the emergency service units.	literal	0
The choice of locations need not be for permanent bases, but can also include dynamic repositioning of units as circumstances dictate(Kolesar and Walker 1974).	metaphorical	1
In any major emergency a typical problem is the assignment of resources to demands.	metaphorical	1
If resources are held at one set of locations and the demands are at another and the costs of transportation are known, how do we allocate the resources most efficiently?	metaphorical	1
In a major emergency, for example, there might  be a need to supply blood products held at regional blood banks to hospitals.	metaphorical	1
This, of course, is the classic transportation problem and its solution is well known.	metaphorical	1
As far as we know the microcomputer- based emergency response system devised by Belardo et al.(1983), is the only GIS-like software to incorporate this algorithm.	metaphorical	1
In this system, the solution to the transportation problem is shown graphically on the road network, which is displayed on the computer screen.	metaphorical	1
As a last example of the potential role of operations research in GIS and disaster management we are reminded of the logistic problems that faced the Peel Regional Police Force during the Mississauga evacuation mentioned previously(Scanlon and Padgham 1980).	metaphorical	1
During the early states of the phased evacuation the logistical problem facing the police was the street-by-street warning of the population to make ready for evacuation.	metaphorical	1
Speed was of the essence and manpower was limited.	metaphorical	1
Here, then, is a familiar operations research network problem: all roads have to be traversed such that the journey length/time is a minimum.	metaphorical	1
This is the so-called Chinese postman problem, which provides a Hamiltonian circuit through the arcs(as compared with the travelling salesman problem which is a minimum route through the network nodes).	metaphorical	1
CHAPTER NINE	literal	0
‘I have a very important assignment for you, Paula,’ Arlene Frampton-Cox said.	metaphorical	1
She inserted a Du Maurier cigarette into her long tortoiseshell holder and sat back, looking at Paula, who was seated in the visitor's chair on the other side of the desk, long legs crossed elegantly.	literal	0
Paula looked every inch a model these days, Arlene thought with a touch of proprietorial pride.	metaphorical	1
Her long hair, shining gold, was swept back and caught at the nape of her neck with a bow, make-up, expertly applied, accentuated the classically beautiful lines of her face, and she wore her well-cut suit with all the panache that was expected of her.	metaphorical	1
A good suit was a working model's uniform— Paula now bought two each season and wore them with perfectly matching accessories, hat, bag and shoes.	metaphorical	1
This one was in soft light green with a boxy shaped jacket and narrow skirt and the same green-and-white check material of the little sleeveless blouse had been used to line the jacket and face the wide reveres.	metaphorical	1
Paula's bag and shoes were patent black leather, her gloves white, and she carried a long walking umbrella neatly furled in its fur-trimmed case.	literal	0
Perfectly groomed from head to toe and with all that assurance, she was ready to take on the world, Arlene thought with satisfaction, for she looked on Paula as her very own creation.	metaphorical	1
The raw materials might have been there before— indeed, had n't it been she, Arlene, who had spotted them?	metaphorical	1
But the transformation of a leggy young filly into a sleekly beautiful racehorse had been her doing.	metaphorical	1
eighteen months on the model circuit had eliminated all trace of her former Somerset accent.	metaphorical	1
She had listened to Arlene's own voice and set about imitating it for she held her mentor in the highest esteem whilst still being a little afraid of her.	metaphorical	1
The House of Mattli is expanding from couture into ready-to-wear and one of the big Bristol stores, Taylors, are putting on a show to publicise the fact that they will be stocking the new prêt-è-porter', Arlene explained.	metaphorical	1
‘I have been asked to supply the models and I would like you to be one of them.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘Mattli!’	literal	0
Paula repeated, impressed.	literal	0
The House of Mattli was a husband and wife team who were numbered amongst the top ten names in the Incorporated Society of London Fashion Designers.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore Madame Mattli was a Frenchwoman, an accident of birth which added to her glamour, for was not Paris the fashion capital of the world?	metaphorical	1
‘Madame Mattli will be coming to Bristol herself,’ Arlene continued.	literal	0
‘Taylors have a certain amount of stock but she will be bringing extra samples from London especially for the show.	literal	0
I only want the best of my girls on this job.	metaphorical	1
Madame Mattli, remember, is used to the best.	metaphorical	1
We ca n't afford any sloppiness.	metaphorical	1
I can count on you, Paula, I feel sure.’	metaphorical	1
‘Oh yes,’ Paula said, brimming with suppressed excitement.	metaphorical	1
‘You can count on me!’	metaphorical	1
Madame Mattli was almost exactly as Paula had imagined she would be, a petite perfectly turned out woman with an air of chic that was unmistakably French.	metaphorical	1
Her dark, grey-streaked hair, which she wore in a long bob, had been cut by Vidal Sassoon and she wore a beautifully tailored black suit relieved only by a little white flounce at the neckline.	metaphorical	1
In the fitting rooms at Taylors she fussed and fretted over her creations like a mother hen and though Paula was overawed by the great designer she also liked her on sight.	metaphorical	1
Madame Mattli might be a stickler for detail, with a generous helping of the artistic temperament which kept her tight-coiled as a spring and which would explode into frenzy if the smallest detail was not as it should be, but she also had a kind face and deep perceptive eyes.	metaphorical	1
Half way through the day's programme of shows, while the dressers went off to grab a sandwich and the model girls, who would not dare to eat while they were showing, revived themselves with cups of black coffee, Madame Mattli took Paula to one side.	metaphorical	1
‘Little one, I would like to speak with you.’	literal	0
Paula's stomach turned a somersault.	metaphorical	1
Had she done something wrong?	literal	0
‘I have been watching you work,’ Madame Mattli said directly.	metaphorical	1
Her accent reminded Paula of Louise— perhaps that was why she warmed to her in spite of the fact that she was so awe-inspiring.	metaphorical	1
‘You are exactly right for a couture model.	metaphorical	1
You have all the physical attributes.’ 	literal	0
‘Thank you,’ Paula said faintly.	literal	0
Madame Mattli waved a dismissive hand.	metaphorical	1
‘Do not thank me.	literal	0
I am not saying this to make your head swell.	metaphorical	1
On the contrary.	metaphorical	1
The fact is that I have a vacancy arising for a couture model.	metaphorical	1
I believe you are exactly what I am looking for.	metaphorical	1
I would like you to come to London to work for me.’	literal	0
Over Madame Mattli's shoulder Paula could see Arlene watching her, a tiny smile lifting one corner of her scarlet mouth, and Paula knew her well enough by now to know exactly what she was thinking.	metaphorical	1
She did not want to lose Paula, who was one of her best models, but already she was enjoying the reflected glory that came from having personally trained a house model for one of the great London couture houses.	metaphorical	1
She had known about the vacancy at Mattli and hoped that the job might be offered to Paula.	metaphorical	1
It was the seal of approval for her own judgement.	metaphorical	1
‘Well?’	literal	0
Madame Mattli demanded.	literal	0
‘Can I have a little time to think it over?’	metaphorical	1
Paula asked boldly.	literal	0
‘A little.	literal	0
But please do not delay too long.	literal	0
My present house model leaves at the end of the month and there are plenty of girls who would jump at the chance.’	metaphorical	1
‘I'm sure.	literal	0
But all the same I could n't make such a move without giving it some thought,’ Paula said grandly.	metaphorical	1
But inside she was bubbling with excitement.	metaphorical	1
Time to think?	literal	0
She did n't need a single second.	literal	0
The moment Madame Mattli had offered her the job she had made up her mind.	metaphorical	1
She was going to take it— of course!	metaphorical	1
A month later Paula, smartly dressed in a new tweed suit with the obligatory matching bag and shoes, and lugging both her modelling case and a brand new cream leather suitcase, took the train to London to begin her new career.	metaphorical	1
She had booked herself a bed at a YWCA hostel for the time being.	literal	0
It was not quite what she envisaged for herself but it had the advantage of being cheap and it went some way towards satisfying Grace, who was convinced that London was a den of iniquity waiting to swallow up her unsuspecting daughter.	metaphorical	1
From the hostel it was only a short tube ride to South Audley Street where Madame Mattli had her showrooms— yet another advantage, Paula thought, trying to weigh up the points in favour of the hostel, which she hated on sight.	metaphorical	1
Sharing a small spartan room  with two other girls— Northerners whose accent Paula found almost incomprehensible and with whom she had nothing in common, making breakfast in the communal kitchen, queuing for the bath, adhering to a strict curfew after which time the doors were locked and bolted— none of these were restrictions Paula had the slightest intention of enduring for long.	metaphorical	1
But for now it would have to do.	literal	0
And at least she was in London, centre of the British fashion industry.	metaphorical	1
As for the House of Mattli, it might have been in a different world to the hostel, with its air of being a cross between a workhouse and a boarding school.	metaphorical	1
The first time she rang the bell and went in through the front doors of the elegant old house where the showrooms were situated(Mattli had no rear entrance) Paula felt she was stepping into the place of her dreams.	metaphorical	1
Deep carpet covered the floors and the stairs swept up to the showrooms and the warren of workrooms beyond, and though the window drapes and furnishings were ever-so-slightly faded, as if they had seen better days, they were of the finest silks and velvets and every corner was swept, polished and cleaned daily so that no single speck of dust, let alone a cobweb, dared show itself.	metaphorical	1
The showroom was neither large nor small, decorated in muted shades of aubergine which would not detract from the clothes.	metaphorical	1
There was a low table and three or four dainty chairs with aubergine velvet seats and gilded spindle legs.	metaphorical	1
The crystal chandelier was for effect only— lighting that would show off the clothes to their best advantage was brilliant yet discreet, and along one wall were racks holding some of the ready-to-wear garments.	metaphorical	1
In contrast to this elegant frontage the workrooms beyond were a hive of frenzied activity.	metaphorical	1
Pattern cutters, fitters, sewing hands and their assistants all worked at an incredible speed.	metaphorical	1
This, Paula soon discovered, was the way of the fashion world— a constant frantic rush against the clock, to have collections ready on time or to complete individual couture garments for customers who always considered their order more urgent, more important, than that of anyone else.	metaphorical	1
Paula was amazed by the security arrangements that were necessary to ensure that the new season's collections remained exclusive— the windows at the rear of the premises were heavily barred and practically the first thing she had to do on commencing her employment was to sign a contract promising that she would not breathe a word about the designs she saw. 	metaphorical	1
On her second day Madame Mattli took her to Vidal Sassoon's salon in Grosvenor House so that her hair could be cut in an up-to-the-minute style.	metaphorical	1
Unlike some couturiers Madame did not mind if her model girls did not have the same colour hair but she did insist on identical styles.	metaphorical	1
By the time Vidal Sassoon had finished with her Paula's long fair locks had been shorn to a sharp geometric shape and she scarcely recognised the reflection that looked back at her from the mirror.	metaphorical	1
Among the rich and famous who had come to the salon to have their hair cut, tinted and set, Paula recognised Dusty Springfield, the pop singer, her eyes big and sooty, her lips pearly pink, and was unable to suppress the thrill of excitement which ran through her.	metaphorical	1
This was her very first taste of only the best being good enough— and she liked it!	metaphorical	1
It was Paula's job to show samples, parading slowly up and down in front of the clients as they sat on the elegant spindle-leg chairs taking in every detail of the garments with a critical and practised eye.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes they came alone, sometimes with a man in tow— to foot the bill!	metaphorical	1
Paula guessed.	literal	0
The appearance of a famous face in the show rooms always caused a stir amongst the girls, who all longed to hook a wealthy husband— and if he had a title, like the Aly Khan, or was a film star like Omar Shariff, then so much the better!	metaphorical	1
Not everything that Paula had to do was quite so glamorous, however.	literal	0
In the long hours when there were no customers to show she was expected to lend a hand with some of the unskilled tasks— running errands and making tea, unpicking a seam or a hem, even sewing on a button or a hook and eye when she had been taught the proper way to do it.	metaphorical	1
Paula was not very clever with her needle but she soon learned to be careful so as not to incur the wrath of the seamstress.	metaphorical	1
There were new tricks of modelling to be learned too— how to remove a coat, sliding It carefully off her shoulders with the sleeves hanging in perfect balance, never for one moment allowing the inside to be on view, for samples were often unlined.	metaphorical	1
This trick took hours of practice, up and down the landing at the hostel while the other girls looked at her as if she had taken leave of her senses.	metaphorical	1
Although she enjoyed her job Paula was lonely.	literal	0
Even the most popular of girls soon discovered that in this highly competitive world where models vied with one another for the most glamorous jobs and the wealthiest and best-looking men there was far more bitchiness than in the provinces— and Paula was far from popular.	metaphorical	1
The other  girls disliked her for her outstanding looks and her haughty ways and made no attempt to be friendly on anything but the most superficial level and the pattern cutters and sewing hands hurried home to their families and boyfriends the moment they finished their long day's work.	metaphorical	1
Paula spent most of her free time alone, window shopping, visiting News Theatres, where she sometimes watched the programme of cartoons twice round, and drinking endless cups of Espresso coffee in cafés and coffee houses.	metaphorical	1
Her favourite was the coffee shop in Fenwicks in Bond Street for this was the haunt and the meeting place of all those from the world of fashion.	metaphorical	1
One lunchtime when she had been at the House of Mattli for a few months Paula went there for her usual coffee and the cottage cheese salad that was her staple diet now that it was so important that she did not add a single half-inch to her wand- slim figure.	metaphorical	1
She took her tray to the pay desk, opened her bag and felt for her purse.	literal	0
It was not there.	literal	0
Frantically she rooted round, then checked her pockets without success.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm sorry.	literal	0
I seem to have lost my purse…’ she explained.	literal	0
The girl behind the till stared at her stonily.	literal	0
Paula was going hot and cold by now.	literal	0
Had it been stolen?	literal	0
No, she remembered her bag tipping over in the cloakroom at Mattli— it must have fallen out then.	literal	0
But without it she could not pay for her coffee and salad.	literal	0
‘Having trouble?’ a voice beside her asked.	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't worry.	metaphorical	1
Let me.’	literal	0
Paula turned gratefully, then gasped with surprise as she recognised the slight figure in black roll-neck sweater and skin tight pants.	metaphorical	1
‘I do n't believe it!	literal	0
Gary Oliver!	literal	0
What are you doing here?’	literal	0
‘The same as you I expect, Paula— getting my strength up to face the rest of the day.	metaphorical	1
Let me pay and then we'll have lunch together and do some catching up— unless you're meeting someone, of course.’	metaphorical	1
‘No— no, I'm not.’	literal	0
Paula picked up her try and moved aside waiting for him, flushed with pleasure at seeing a familiar face.	metaphorical	1
Gary Oliver was a designer, young and very talented.	literal	0
She had met him back home in the west country when he had come to supervise a show put on by one of the big ready-to-wear labels, Carnega, for whom he worked as a junior member of the design team.	metaphorical	1
For a whole week they had worked closely together, sharing flasks of coffee and packets of cigarettes and Paula had grown to like the pixie ish little man who by his very nature offered her no challenge— and no threat.	metaphorical	1
Gary should have been a girl, she had thought, for he was  half a head smaller than she was with fair curling hair, baby-blue eyes and long thick lashes that were the envy of every woman who met him.	metaphorical	1
‘Shall we sit over there in the corner?’	literal	0
Gary suggested.	literal	0
He led the way, his slim hips in the tight fitting pants snaking gracefully between the tables.	literal	0
They unloaded their trays on to a table.	metaphorical	1
‘What are you doing in London then, Paula?	literal	0
Apart from mislaying your purse, I mean.’	literal	0
He grinned at her impishly.	metaphorical	1
She told him.	literal	0
‘And what about you?	metaphorical	1
Are n't you with Carnega any more?’	metaphorical	1
He shook his head.	literal	0
Dimples played in his cheeks.	metaphorical	1
‘No— now I'm with the House of Oliver.’	metaphorical	1
‘The House of Oliver…?	literal	0
Oh!’ she squealed as light dawned.	metaphorical	1
‘Your own house?	literal	0
You've set up as a designer in your own right, Gary!’	metaphorical	1
‘Yep.	literal	0
In a small way at the moment, of course, but things are happening.	metaphorical	1
I came into a bit of money when my grandmother died and I decided to put it to good use.’	metaphorical	1
‘Is n't it a bit of a risk?’	metaphorical	1
Paula asked.	literal	0
He shrugged his narrow shoulders.	literal	0
‘Perhaps.	literal	0
But I wanted to work for myself.	literal	0
Designing clothes for Carnega was all very well and I made a good living at it I wo n't deny but I wanted to be free to do my own thing— and to have my own name on the labels.	metaphorical	1
I have quite a few contacts— people who knew me when I was designing for Carnega— and they have been very encouraging.	metaphorical	1
So I have decided to move to London and open a showroom.	metaphorical	1
In fact I have just been looking at a place in South Audley Street, not far from Mattli.	metaphorical	1
If it works out we shall practically be neighbours, Paula.’	metaphorical	1
‘What a small world!	literal	0
I had no idea,’ Paula said, surprised she had not already heard the news.	metaphorical	1
Usually the slightest whisper travelled like jungle drums through the world of fashion.	metaphorical	1
Until now Gary had been an out-of-town designer, of course.	metaphorical	1
But if he was moving to London his new fashion house would soon be a talking point.	metaphorical	1
‘We must keep in touch,’ Gary said as he finished his cheese roll.	metaphorical	1
‘Promise you'll look in and say hello when you have time.’	metaphorical	1
‘I will.	literal	0
Apart from anything else I owe you a coffee.’	metaphorical	1
‘True.	literal	0
I do n't suppose I could persuade you to work for me in return?	metaphorical	1
I'm looking for a couple of good models.	metaphorical	1
Though I do n't  suppose I could afford to pay you as well as Mattli does— yet.	literal	0
Maybe one day…’	literal	0
Paula laughed.	literal	0
‘I do n't earn that much!	metaphorical	1
By the time I've paid for my room at the YWCA and bought all the make-up and clothes I need there never seems to be anything left over.	metaphorical	1
I'm looking for a rich husband to take me away from it all.’	metaphorical	1
‘And I'm sure one day you'll find him.	literal	0
In the meantime, do n't forget your friends, eh Paula?’	metaphorical	1
‘I wo n't,’ she promised, glancing at her watch.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh hell, I shall have to go.’	metaphorical	1
‘Me too.	literal	0
But it was great to see you again, Paula.’	metaphorical	1
They walked back to South Audley Street together, weaving their way through the lunchtime crowds on the pavements, the tall, striking girl and the young man whose pixie ish looks belied his twenty-six years.	metaphorical	1
Outside the front entrance of the House of Mattli Paula turned to give him a quick impulsive hug.	metaphorical	1
‘Thanks for the lunch, Gary.	literal	0
And good luck with your new venture!’	metaphorical	1
She held up her fingers, tightly crossed for him.	metaphorical	1
He grinned.	literal	0
‘I'll need it.	literal	0
Do n't forget to come and see me, will you?	literal	0
I shall be expecting you.’	literal	0
‘I wo n't forget.	literal	0
'Bye for now!’ she called, and ran in through the imposing front door.	literal	0
Madame Mattli was furious.	literal	0
In all the time she had been with her Paula had never seen her so angry.	metaphorical	1
‘I hear you have been seen going into the House of Oliver,’ she said, her immaculately painted lips tight with fury.	metaphorical	1
Beside her Monsieur Mattli, a small Greek-looking man, some ten years her senior, was also quivering with indignation.	metaphorical	1
‘Not once but several times,’ he added.	metaphorical	1
It was so unusual for him to contribute anything to the conversation that Paula glanced at him in surprise.	metaphorical	1
Though he was always in evidence it was invariably Madame who did all the talking, giving orders, fussing around clients, so that Paula was never quite certain what his role was.	metaphorical	1
‘Gary Oliver is a friend,’ she said defensively.	metaphorical	1
Madame Mattli snorted angrily.	literal	0
‘I do not pay you to have friends in rival fashion houses.’	metaphorical	1
‘He's not a rival…’	literal	0
Paula broke off.	metaphorical	1
It seemed ridiculous that a newcomer like Gary could be any threat to a well-established house  like Mattli.	metaphorical	1
But in the cut-throat world of fashion up and coming designers were to be feared— and already Gary's reputation was growing.	metaphorical	1
‘You know that we insist on complete loyalty,’ Madame Mattli continued.	metaphorical	1
‘The security of our designs is paramount.	metaphorical	1
Oh Paula, how could you!’	literal	0
‘But I would never mention anything I have seen here!’	literal	0
Paula protested.	literal	0
Madame snorted again.	literal	0
‘How can I be sure of that?	metaphorical	1
Even if you do not intend to be disloyal there is always the risk that you might be careless.	literal	0
Pillow talk is the most dangerous.’	literal	0
‘Pillow talk!’	literal	0
Paula repeated, stunned.	metaphorical	1
Close though her friendship with Gary had become she had never once breathed a word to him about the new collections she saw taking shape at Mattli— and as for‘pillow talk’ the notion was absurd.	metaphorical	1
There was nothing like that between them and never would be.	metaphorical	1
Gary was not interested in girls.	metaphorical	1
Surely that must be obvious to everyone who met him.	metaphorical	1
‘You must stop visiting him,’ Madame said firmly.	metaphorical	1
‘Either I have your word on It or I am afraid you can no longer remain in my employ.	metaphorical	1
I want you to promise me here and now that you will not see Gary Oliver again.’	literal	0
Paula was trembling.	literal	0
Her job with the House of Mattli was her life.	metaphorical	1
But to allow herself to be dictated to in this way when she knew she had done nothing wrong was tantamount to admitting guilt.	metaphorical	1
And she could n't bear the thought of being sucked back into the ebb tide of loneliness again either.	metaphorical	1
With Gary she enjoyed a relationship she had never experienced with anyone else— the easy-going friendship of a male who made no demands whatever on her— and it meant more to her than she had realised.	metaphorical	1
‘I have never betrayed any confidence and I never will.	metaphorical	1
But you ca n't expect me to cut myself off from my friends,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
‘I am afraid I do expect it, Paula, in this case.’	metaphorical	1
‘I ca n't promise not to see Gary again.’	literal	0
‘Very well.’	literal	0
There was a hint of sadness now in Madame's eyes but her mouth was set and determined.	metaphorical	1
‘I shall be sorry to lose you, Paula.	metaphorical	1
You are a good model and you suited me very well.	metaphorical	1
But you leave me no choice.	metaphorical	1
Please do not bother to come in again.	literal	0
I shall contact the agency for a replacement immediately.	metaphorical	1
And I warn you, if any of my designs or anything like them turn up in the showroom at the House of Oliver I shall sue— and win the sort of damages  that will put your little friend out of business for good.	metaphorical	1
Do I make myself clear?’	metaphorical	1
Paula was still afraid of Madame Mattli— and she was also close to tears.	metaphorical	1
But she was determined Madame should not be aware of either.	literal	0
‘Yes, Madame.	literal	0
I'm sorry to leave you, but I assure you you need not worry on that score.’	metaphorical	1
The showrooms of the House of Oliver were smaller and less grand than those at the House of Mattli but the décor was newer and fresher, pale grey drapes, ultra modern black furniture and a great deal of gleaming stainless steel.	metaphorical	1
Gary was in the workroom when Paula arrived, pinning a length of vibrant pink chiffon sarong-style around one of his models.	metaphorical	1
His mouth was full of pins.	literal	0
‘What are you doing here?’ he asked without moving his lips.	metaphorical	1
Paula perched herself against the cutting table trying to look nonchalant.	metaphorical	1
‘I've left Mattli,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
Gary stared at her for a moment, pins spewing from his mouth and catching on the front of his black jersey.	metaphorical	1
Then he unpinned the length of chiffon and let it fall to the floor.	literal	0
The model stood motionless, clad in nothing but her bra and stockings, waiting for his instructions.	metaphorical	1
‘We'll leave this for now, Claudia’, he said.	metaphorical	1
‘See if you can rustle up a cup of tea for Paula and me, please.’	metaphorical	1
The girl pulled on her wrap and moved to the door looking back over her shoulder as she went and Paula was aware of the hostility in her gaze.	metaphorical	1
Why was it all women hated her so, even when they did n't know her?	literal	0
She shrugged.	literal	0
Oh well, she should be used to it by now…	metaphorical	1
Gary got up, took Paula by the arm and led her over to the low sofa.	literal	0
‘What's all this about, lovey?	metaphorical	1
You ca n't have left Mattli.’	metaphorical	1
‘I have.’	literal	0
Paula related what had happened and saw Gary turn pale.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh Lord!	literal	0
You mean she thinks you've been spying for me!	literal	0
If she sues I'll be ruined.	metaphorical	1
Even worse, someone of her stature could make a hell of a lot of trouble for me, even if she does n't.’	metaphorical	1
‘But Gary— I have n't been spying for you!	literal	0
I have n't even mentioned a single detail of the Mattli collection.’	literal	0
‘You know that and so do I. But suppose I've done something similar?	metaphorical	1
It happens every season— by sheer chance and law of  averages some of the ideas are bound to come up.	metaphorical	1
There are always accusations of piracy and copy-catting, though they ca n't usually be substantiated.	metaphorical	1
But if she can prove that you and I…’	literal	0
‘That's nonsense!	metaphorical	1
We have n't done anything wrong.’	literal	0
Gary ran a distracted hand through his mop of fair hair.	metaphorical	1
‘You're going to have to describe the Mattli collection to me.	metaphorical	1
Every detail.’	literal	0
‘Gary!’ she objected, shocked.	metaphorical	1
‘You're an original.	metaphorical	1
You ca n't steal their ideas!’	metaphorical	1
‘No, idiot— not so that I can steal them.	metaphorical	1
So that I can go through my designs and make quite certain that there is not one collar, not one cuff detail, not the slightest influence that they could accuse me of copying from them.	metaphorical	1
Oh Jesus Christ!— suppose there's something major?	literal	0
My peg top evening gown— my beautiful cerise lace— I could end up having to rethink the whole collection!’	metaphorical	1
‘For goodness sake stop panicking!’	literal	0
Paula said, though she could feel the seeds of panic herself.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm sure there's nothing to worry about.’	metaphorical	1
‘I only hope you're right!’ he said in anguished tones.	metaphorical	1
The model came in with the cups of tea, still glowering darkly at Paula from beneath her fringe of false eyelashes.	metaphorical	1
It was clear she was blaming Paula bitterly for the interrupted afternoon and her boss's drastic change of mood.	metaphorical	1
‘That girl is a dog!’	metaphorical	1
Paula said when they were alone again.	literal	0
‘I'm sure she ca n't do justice to your designs.	metaphorical	1
And with a miserable face like hers I'm surprised you ever get any work done at all.’	metaphorical	1
Gary looked crestfallen.	literal	0
‘She's the best I could get…’	literal	0
‘Oh what rubbish!’	metaphorical	1
Paula said roundly.	literal	0
‘Anyway, you've got me now so you can get rid of her.’	metaphorical	1
‘What do you mean?’	literal	0
Gary asked.	literal	0
He looked like a worried small boy.	literal	0
‘I told you— I've left Mattli.	metaphorical	1
I'll come and work for you.’	literal	0
‘Oh Paula!’	literal	0
Gary's expression became even more anxious.	metaphorical	1
‘You know I'd give my right arm to have someone as good as you to model for me!	metaphorical	1
But I told you before— I could n't afford to pay you what you're worth.	metaphorical	1
Well, not for ages, anyway.	literal	0
It's going to be a long struggle getting established and until I am I do n't see how…’	metaphorical	1
Paula smiled.	literal	0
For the first time she felt the stirrings of something like power.	metaphorical	1
It was not unlike the feeling she experienced when men looked at her and wanted her though she knew it could not be that for there was nothing sexual between her and Gary and never would  be.	metaphorical	1
But it was just as exciting, nevertheless.	literal	0
It made her feel strong, invincible almost, and just a tiny bit as if she had drunk too much wine.	metaphorical	1
Her smile spread.	metaphorical	1
Grant's remains were shovelled into a canvas bag.	literal	0
Tense, facing outwards, Forster, Lawton and Nell guarded Delaney as he intoned the seaman's prayer of interment, and then committed the canvas bag to the ocean.	metaphorical	1
The storm was abating rapidly, the evening sky clearing in the west with the golden rays  of the setting sun adding a dying colour to the sullen slate blue water.	metaphorical	1
The whiteness of the canvas body-bag dimmed beneath the onrushing sea, faded at the edges, then grew smaller, greener, and was gone.	metaphorical	1
They returned to the bridge, fearful of every dark place— every corner, every door.	literal	0
The gangway lamps seemed to give no light, only add further to the gloom of the dusk.	metaphorical	1
Back in the wheelhouse, Delaney faced them.	metaphorical	1
‘Right.	literal	0
You all know the score.	metaphorical	1
As I see it we've got two choices.	metaphorical	1
One, we get out of here now.	literal	0
Launch the lifeboat, take our chances, or… two, we go after whatever it is.’	metaphorical	1
Nobody spoke immediately.	literal	0
Finally Forster glanced at Lawton for support, and drawled laconically.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm not leaving here until we've done for that bastard.	metaphorical	1
It's personal from now on in!’	metaphorical	1
Lawton nodded his agreement.	literal	0
‘Yes,’ he said,‘I feel the same.’	metaphorical	1
‘Nell?’	literal	0
Delaney asked, looking at her squarely.	metaphorical	1
‘I agree,’ she said without hesitation.	metaphorical	1
Their tense, edgy faces watched Delaney closely.	metaphorical	1
‘We do n't know what we're up against,’ Delaney said,‘so let's proceed with maximum caution.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘Trouble is,’ Lawton said, with a frown,‘there are n't enough of us to search the ship.	metaphorical	1
It can work its way past us, and hide again.	metaphorical	1
We could still be looking for it when they blow us out of the water.’	metaphorical	1
‘That's why we've got to take risks,’ Nell put in.	metaphorical	1
‘Lure it into a trap, somehow.	metaphorical	1
And quickly.	literal	0
Forster's chuckle was mirthless.	literal	0
‘I do n't think this joker is going to need much encouragement.’	metaphorical	1
‘No.’	literal	0
Delaney was momentarily thoughtful.	literal	0
‘What had you in mind, Nell?’	metaphorical	1
She pointed to the figure of a man propped in the corner, and the cylinders of oxygen in the back pack lying beside it.	metaphorical	1
‘Two of our number have been killed.	literal	0
Each time when they were on their own.	metaphorical	1
Let's give it the same conditions, only this time we use that as the bait.’	metaphorical	1
They looked at the‘man’ Forster had found.	metaphorical	1
It was a safety suit, an advanced model of the NBC type with its own oxygen tanks.	literal	0
‘One in ambush, with the rest of us acting like beaters.	metaphorical	1
Start at one end of the ship, making as much noise as possible.’	metaphorical	1
Forster grunted.	literal	0
‘It had no trouble finding Grant.	metaphorical	1
I think it's a good idea.	literal	0
And I'll go in the suit until we  reach the ambush point.	metaphorical	1
Might help to draw it.’	metaphorical	1
They helped him kit up, Nell connecting the leads from the back pack into the suit attachments.	metaphorical	1
Forster's breathing whistled out of the one-way valve.	metaphorical	1
Behind the clear, wide vizor, he tried to smile.	literal	0
‘Cosy in here,’ he joked.	literal	0
‘Even got my own toilet.	literal	0
Bloody handy in the circumstances.’	metaphorical	1
Delaney took the lead.	metaphorical	1
It was now light, the lamps on the gangway giving murky yellow pools that barely pushed back the inky blackness of a starless night.	metaphorical	1
At the entrance to the laboratory complex the others drew on their own masks.	literal	0
Ineffectual or not against lingering gases it seemed a wise precaution, even if it was only psychological.	metaphorical	1
Delaney glanced back at them.	metaphorical	1
‘Let's make sure it knows where we are.’	metaphorical	1
They made noise; slammed doors.	metaphorical	1
Nell shuddered.	literal	0
Were unseen eyes watching them?	literal	0
Was it even now shadowing them, moving soundlessly from cover to cover, like a tiger in the steel jungle?	metaphorical	1
Forster's radio-projected voice broke into her thoughts.	metaphorical	1
‘Looks a good place.’	literal	0
He was at the entrance to the secure lab zone. 	metaphorical	1
‘This must be the only way in,’ Nell said.	literal	0
Forster was quickly de-suited.	literal	0
As they set up the now empty suit with its back to the door, half slumped over a control panel, he settled down behind the curtained entrance of the showers.	metaphorical	1
Delaney's voice was hushed.	literal	0
‘Maybe we should leave two of us here?’	literal	0
‘Do n't want to rouse any suspicions.	metaphorical	1
Forster was adamant.	literal	0
‘After all, it might be able to count.’	metaphorical	1
When he did n't get any response, he patted the Uzi beside him on the steel floor.	metaphorical	1
‘I wo n't be unprepared like poor old Grant.’	metaphorical	1
Delaney pulled the curtain across, covering Forster who cut a small slit in the opaque green plastic, widening it to give himself a better field of view.	metaphorical	1
Lawton came and crouched down in front of it.	literal	0
‘I've left the suit's radio on full,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
‘Make it sound interesting if we talk occasionally.’	metaphorical	1
He hesitated.	literal	0
‘Good luck.’	literal	0
‘I feel like a Maharajah waiting for the tiger to pounce on the tied- up goat,’ Forster grinned.	metaphorical	1
‘I hope I do n't have to wait all night.’	literal	0
Nell shuddered.	literal	0
Night.	literal	0
This was a night in their minds— a creature from the darker side of man's intellect.	metaphorical	1
Something worried her  about that thought.	metaphorical	1
Something hidden behind the more obvious sentiment.	metaphorical	1
After they'd gone, Forster felt the silence physically settle around him.	metaphorical	1
He'd never been one to exercise an over- imagination, yet the conditions were like the feeling of a tomb— of an interment.	metaphorical	1
Would he be found, he mused, a thousand years from then, a dust-covered skeleton?	metaphorical	1
He chuckled.	literal	0
And the Uzi a primitive weapon, the bio suit mistaken for some sort of ceremonial armour?	metaphorical	1
The first stunning silence gave way to the creaking of the ship and a far-off booming of the sea against the hull.	metaphorical	1
The radio on the dummy suddenly screeched into action as Delaney's distorted voice gave it life.	metaphorical	1
The thousands of tons of steel made real communication impossible.	metaphorical	1
His own radio was off.	metaphorical	1
Forster settled down, only putting his eye to the slit every half minute, not continually as he had started to do.	metaphorical	1
He had a good view of the long shadowy main corridor.	metaphorical	1
The only problem was if— he corrected himself— when it came, which side turning, if any, would it use.	metaphorical	1
The further away the better.	literal	0
The more time to see it approach. 	literal	0
The trouble was the transverse corridor just outside the room.	literal	0
If the approach was that way he would get no warning at all, and it would be on top of George— his name for the dummy sitting like a drunken son-of-a-bitch— before he knew it.	metaphorical	1
If that happened, he'd have to work fast.	metaphorical	1
What he'd seen done to Grant made Forster realise that whatever it was struck with demonic speed and savagery.	metaphorical	1
In seconds, poor old George would be spread around the room like an explosion in Harrod's window, and the thing would be away.	metaphorical	1
Or on him.	metaphorical	1
As if in protest, George uttered a blood-curdling, lunatic-sounding cackle, and fell fractionally forward.	metaphorical	1
Forster suppressed a nervous giggle.	metaphorical	1
They reached the main deck, dropping down	metaphorical	1
in a defensive posture, eyes searching the stacked containers, trying to probe the black, jagged recesses between them.	metaphorical	1
Lawton scanned upwards.	literal	0
‘It could be anywhere.	literal	0
Even back on the bridge again.’	metaphorical	1
‘We should start in the engine room,’ Nell suggested, shivering,‘work up through the crew's quarters, and then into the complex.’	metaphorical	1
Confronted with the need to proceed, 	metaphorical	1
Delaney took risks, plummeting feet first through the hatchways, and partly breaking his descent with the handrails, falling like a parachutist, rolling instantly deploying his Uzi against…	metaphorical	1
Against what?	metaphorical	1
Like Forster, all he could guess was that it was fast.	literal	0
Grant may have been lame, but… fast or silent?	literal	0
Or both?	literal	0
The speed of descent must have cut down the exposure to any residual gas since he felt none of the earlier weirdness as he approached the still sealed engine room door.	metaphorical	1
Pandora's Box?	metaphorical	1
He winced at the memory as he hammered on the steel and then looked through the spy port.	metaphorical	1
In the stroboscopic view, the giant pistons were the only things moving— until a figure detached itself from the wall, its grey colour exactly that of the background steel.	metaphorical	1
Like a chameleon, it moved out of the aisle between machines, then stopped, and became utterly motionless.	metaphorical	1
Delaney's stillness caught the attention of the others.	metaphorical	1
Nell's transceivered voice crackled in his headphones.	metaphorical	1
‘What is it?’	literal	0
He did n't want to take his eyes from it— equally he wanted somebody else to see it.	metaphorical	1
To confirm. 	literal	0
Gently as though he might disturb it, he pulled back.	metaphorical	1
‘Take a look for yourself.’	metaphorical	1
She did— and caught her breath.	metaphorical	1
The creature was large-headed, absurdly so, its body half man, half something lost in the primordial past.	metaphorical	1
But there could be no doubt that fundamentally it was… human.	literal	0
Nell knew, and not only because she was a female of the same species.	literal	0
She could see in its eyes— intelligence.	literal	0
And human fear.	literal	0
But also, as a doctor, she knew exactly what it was.	literal	0
She told Delaney, who shook his head with revulsion.	metaphorical	1
Nell would never rest until she could get closer to confirm her worst suspicions, and paradoxically it was the woman in her that provided the intensity of emotion that would let nothing stand in her way.	metaphorical	1
George, the sacrificial dummy, had n't emitted a squeak for a long time.	metaphorical	1
Forster scanned the corridor once more.	literal	0
It was empty.	literal	0
just as it always had been.	literal	0
He sat back again, eyeing the blank wall before him, confident that he'd catch it, however good it was.	literal	0
He kept wondering how it had got Silk.	metaphorical	1
Silk was the meanest, toughest professional he'd  ever known.	metaphorical	1
And yet he'd disappeared, without trace.	metaphorical	1
Forster was a fatalist.	literal	0
He shrugged.	literal	0
You could be James Bond, he thought, but if something had your number on it…	metaphorical	1
A gentle breeze broke the absolute silence, moving the curtain so that he had to steady it with his hand.	metaphorical	1
Instantly alert, Forster checked through his spy port.	metaphorical	1
Nothing.	literal	0
But a door had opened somewhere.	literal	0
Somebody, or something, had entered the complex.	literal	0
It could be the others returning— or the start of his ambush.	literal	0
‘For God's sake leave your mask on.	literal	0
And that's an order!’	metaphorical	1
But Delaney's plea was in vain.	literal	0
Nell pulled it off, got close to the door, and shouted.	literal	0
‘We mean you no harm.	literal	0
You can help us.’	literal	0
When she checked through the spyhole it was standing in exactly the same spot, unmoving, like a lizard.	metaphorical	1
Lawton shook his head.	literal	0
‘Ca n't hear you.	literal	0
Try the ship's system again.’	literal	0
Nell ran to the wall telephone, and pushed the digit for engine room.	literal	0
The small light beneath the receiver rests showed that the  line was working.	metaphorical	1
Worried, Delaney followed, searching her face, fearing the tell-tale signs of toxicity.	metaphorical	1
On impulse, and against his better judgment, he pulled off his own mask.	metaphorical	1
Nell repeatedly pressed the button, shouted across at Lawton, who was now using the spy port.	metaphorical	1
‘What's happening?’	literal	0
The back of Lawton's head shook, his radio-projected voice crackling.	metaphorical	1
‘Nothing now.	literal	0
The head jerked, just the once, to the left, so I reckon it heard the‘phone.’	metaphorical	1
He straightened up and came over, directing his question at Delaney.	metaphorical	1
‘We ought to get on.’	literal	0
Delaney nodded his agreement.	literal	0
‘Leave it, Nell.’	literal	0
His tone was sharp.	metaphorical	1
‘It's not going anywhere.’	literal	0
She squared up to him, defiantly,	metaphorical	1
‘I ca n't, John.	literal	0
Do n't you see?	metaphorical	1
The poor thing is part of this madness.	metaphorical	1
If we can get to it, I can learn so much more.	literal	0
And in any case, it might die if we do n't try and help it… soon.’	metaphorical	1
Delaney averted his gaze from her, afraid of what he had seen in her eyes.	metaphorical	1
‘Perhaps it would be better if it did.’	literal	0
‘You do n't mean that,’ she said, stepping  away from him.	metaphorical	1
Delaney fiddled awkwardly with his mask, preparatory to putting it back on again.	metaphorical	1
‘For God's sake, Nell.	literal	0
All I mean is, we've got a job to do.	metaphorical	1
And Forster's neck's on the line.	metaphorical	1
Do n't you owe it to him to come now?’	metaphorical	1
She flushed, but held on to the‘phone.	metaphorical	1
Obviously striving to be as controlled as possible, she smiled.	metaphorical	1
‘You two can manage,’ she said calmly.	metaphorical	1
‘I can do better here, on my own.	metaphorical	1
Quietly.	literal	0
If I succeed it will unlock a lot of the mystery of what's been done on Titron.	metaphorical	1
And…’	literal	0
She faltered.	literal	0
‘… I think we owe it to that pathetic creature in there.’	metaphorical	1
‘Pathetic?’	literal	0
Delaney tried to play down the fear in his voice— fear for her.	metaphorical	1
‘It might be bloody dangerous.	literal	0
Certainly, something on this ship is.’	literal	0
‘Not this one,’ Nell said, shaking her head with some kind of reassurance.	metaphorical	1
‘I just know.’	literal	0
Lawton gestured in the gangway.	literal	0
‘You may not be at risk from what is in here.	metaphorical	1
What about out there?	metaphorical	1
There's no guarantee that what we're hunting is going to follow the rules.’	metaphorical	1
Nell shrugged.	literal	0
‘That's a risk I'll have to take.	metaphorical	1
I've got a more important job here.’ 	metaphorical	1
Delaney knew there was no way she would be shifted from her chosen course.	metaphorical	1
Ordering her would be ludicrous under the changed circumstances, and in any event, a waste of time.	metaphorical	1
But Lawton was right.	literal	0
The risk from the other danger, or dangers of Titron, frightened him more.	metaphorical	1
‘Help me secure the stairs behind us,’ he snapped at Lawton,‘as much as we can.’	metaphorical	1
Delaney turned to Nell.	literal	0
‘It might buy you the time you need.	metaphorical	1
But take care.	metaphorical	1
Do n't be bloody foolish like I am, leaving you here.	literal	0
Establish contact if you can.	metaphorical	1
No more at this stage.	metaphorical	1
Understand?	literal	0
And do n't try and get the door open.’	literal	0
But Nell was hardly listening.	literal	0
To please him she nodded, then despite Lawton's presence, squeezed Delaney's arm.	literal	0
‘And you.’	literal	0
She smiled.	literal	0
‘Watch out.’	literal	0
Reluctantly, Delaney made for the gangway.	metaphorical	1
Lawton had already shifted some chairs, in readiness to form a barricade.	metaphorical	1
He gave him a hand with a large oil drum, and then another, as Nell, tearing herself from her appointed task, dragged over a bench.	metaphorical	1
As they drew back up the stairs, piling on the pieces she threw up at them, Lawton sniffed.	literal	0
‘This wo n't hold anything.	metaphorical	1
Just slow it down.’ 	literal	0
Like Forster before her, Nell indicated her pistol and grenades.	metaphorical	1
‘As long as there's ti me, that's all we need.’	literal	0
As they descended the stairs, Delaney paused, and took a last look down at her.	metaphorical	1
She smiled shyly, then turned away.	literal	0
In a sense, as long as he could convince himself that she was safe, he was glad she was n't coming with them.	metaphorical	1
Whatever it was they were after, it was an unknown quantity, unknown, that is, except for a lethal ferocity.	metaphorical	1
He pulled on his respirator, his mind made up to get back to her as soon as he could, for Nell Anderson was all he cared about now.	metaphorical	1
There it went again.	literal	0
Forster frowned as he looked through his spy hole.	literal	0
A sound.	literal	0
He could n't place it, but it reminded him strongly of something.	metaphorical	1
The corridor was empty.	literal	0
It had happened three times now.	literal	0
A hissing, We gas escaping, ending with a funny little squeak.	metaphorical	1
He looked at George, wondering if the sound had come from him.	metaphorical	1
Satisfied that everything was as it should be, he checked his watch.	literal	0
Well over half an hour had passed.	metaphorical	1
They ought to be near him soon.	literal	0
Forster searched in a pouch and came up with a glucose sweet.	literal	0
Quietly he unwrapped the  covering paper, then paused, as some instinct made him check again.	metaphorical	1
As he did so, the sound came nearer; louder.	metaphorical	1
His intense scrutiny took in the shadowy and empty lengths of the corridor.	metaphorical	1
Apart from some dark patches on the wall that he had n't noticed before, there was nothing to see.	metaphorical	1
His gaze came back to George, still sprawled over the control desk.	metaphorical	1
A fly landed on the empty, staring vizor, and crawled across it.	metaphorical	1
Forster was sorely tempted to nip out and confirm that the noise was coming from George by twiddling the volume and tuner, but fought down the urge.	metaphorical	1
He sat back, pulled off his mask, and popped the sweet into his mouth.	metaphorical	1
It took him only seconds to notice the smell.	metaphorical	1
Forster choked as the putrefying reek seemed to get right into him.	literal	0
Frightened that it was a gas pocket, he fumbled with his mask, and finally got it back on.	metaphorical	1
His heart was thumping.	literal	0
Nothing seemed to be happening, all his senses were apparently functioning normally, except… that the sweet in his mouth seemed permeated with the awful smell; had become a slimy lump of filth.	metaphorical	1
He had to get rid of it.	literal	0
Forster reached for his mask, just as the hissing gas noise sounded right on top of him,  ending with a little shriek.	metaphorical	1
He knew then where he'd heard something similar before.	metaphorical	1
It was like a man breathing through a respiratory system, with some sort of one-way valve.	literal	0
A shadow fell across the wall opposite, as slowly, and fearfully he turned.	metaphorical	1
The curtain was a dense, opaque greenish-yellow, and something was right behind it, a shape pressing against the humped plastic standing there looking down at him, half seen, half imagined.	metaphorical	1
His hand went out, reached for the submachine gun, his fingers tightening on the stock.	metaphorical	1
With a blood-curdling growl, the curtain was snatched aside.	metaphorical	1
Forster half rolled, his Uzi trembling in his hand as he got off half a clip at point blank range.	metaphorical	1
But it struck with the speed of an attacking snake.	metaphorical	1
And something else; something he saw as the curtain tore away and he looked into the depths of the unbelievable face above him, fractionally dulled his reflexes. 	metaphorical	1
Friday 16 September to Tuesday 20 September	metaphorical	1
Once free of the knotted tentacles of the eastern suburbs, Dalgliesh made good time and by three he was driving through Lydsett village.	metaphorical	1
Here a right turn took him off the coastal road on to what was little more than a smoothly macadamed track bordered by water-filled ditches and fringed by a golden haze of reeds, their lumbered heads straining in the wind.	metaphorical	1
And now, for the first time, he thought that he could smell the North Sea, that potent but half- illusory tang evoking nostalgic memories of childhood holidays, of solitary adolescent walks as he struggled with his first poems, of his aunt's tall figure at his side, binoculars round her neck, striding towards the haunts of her beloved birds.	metaphorical	1
And here, barring the road, was the familiar old farm gate still in place.	metaphorical	1
Its continued presence always surprised him since it served no purpose that he could see except symbolically to cut off the headland and to give travellers pause to consider whether they really wanted to continue.	metaphorical	1
It swung open at his touch but closing it, as always, was more difficult and he lugged and half lifted it into place and slipped the circle of wire over the gatepost with a familiar sensation of having turned his back on the workaday world and entered country which, no matter how frequent his visits, would always be alien territory.	metaphorical	1
He was driving now across the open headland towards the fringe of pine trees which bordered the North Sea.	literal	0
The only house to his left was the old Victorian rectory, a square, red-brick building, incongruous behind its struggling hedge of rhododendron and laurel.	metaphorical	1
To his right the ground rose gently towards the southern cliffs and he could see the dark mouth of a concrete pillbox, undemolished since the war, and as seemingly indestructible as the great hulks of wave-battered concrete, remnants of the old fortifications which lay half-submerged in the sand along part of the beach.	metaphorical	1
To the north the broken arches and stumps of the ruined Benedictine abbey gleamed golden in the afternoon sun against the crinkled blue of the sea and, breasting a small ridge, he glimpsed for the first time the topsail of Larksoken Mill and beyond it, against the skyline, the great grey bulk of Larksoken Nuclear power Station.	metaphorical	1
The road he was on,  veering left, would lead eventually to the station but was, he knew, seldom used since normal traffic and all heavy vehicles used the new access road to the north.	metaphorical	1
The headland was empty and almost bare, the few straggling trees, distorted by the wind, struggled to keep their precarious hold in the uncompromising soil.	metaphorical	1
And now he was passing a second and more dilapidated pillbox and it struck him that the whole headland had the desolate look of an old battlefield, the corpses long since carted away but the air vibrating still with the gunfire of long-lost battles, while the power station loomed over it like a grandiose modern monument to the unknown dead.	metaphorical	1
On his previous visits to Larksoken he had seen Martyr's Cottage spread out beneath him when he and his aunt had stood surveying the headland from the small top room under the cone of the mill.	metaphorical	1
But he had never been closer to it than the road and now, driving up to it, it struck him again that the description‘cottage’ was hardly appropriate.	metaphorical	1
It was a substantial, two-storey, L-shaped house standing to the east of the track with walls partly flint and partly rendered, enclosing at the rear a courtyard of York stone which gave an uninterrupted view over fifty yards of scrub to the grassy dunes and the sea.	metaphorical	1
No one appeared as he drew up and, before lifting his hand to the bell, he paused to read the words of a stone plaque embedded in the flints to the right of the door.	literal	0
In a cottage on this site lived Agnes Poley, Protestant martyr, burned at Ipswich, 15th August 1557, aged 32 years.	metaphorical	1
Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 15.	literal	0
The plaque was unadorned, the letters deeply carved in an elegant script reminiscent of Eric Gill, and Dalgliesh remembered his aunt telling him that it had been placed there by previous owners in the late twenties, when the cottage was originally extended.	metaphorical	1
One of the advantages of a religious education is the ability to identify at least the better-known texts of scripture and this was one which it needed no effort of memory to recall.	metaphorical	1
As a delinquent nine-year-old at his prep school, he had once been required by the headmaster to write out in his best handwriting the whole of the third chapter of Ecclesiastes, old Gumboil, economical in this as in all matters, believing that writing lines should combine punishment with literary and religious education.	metaphorical	1
The words, in that round childish script, had remained with him.	metaphorical	1
It was, he thought, an interesting choice of text. 	literal	0
That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past.	metaphorical	1
He rang and there was only a short delay before Alice Mair opened the door.	metaphorical	1
He saw a tall, handsome woman dressed with careful and expensive informality in a black cashmere sweater with a silk scarf at the throat and fawn trousers.	metaphorical	1
He would have recognized her from her strong resemblance to her brother, although she looked the elder by some years.	metaphorical	1
She took it for granted that each knew who the other was, and standing aside to motion him in she said:‘It's good of you to be so accommodating, Mr Dalgliesh.	metaphorical	1
I'm afraid Nora Gurney is implacable.	literal	0
Once she knew you were on your way to Norfolk you were a predestined victim.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps you would bring the proofs through to the kitchen.’	literal	0
It was a distinguished face with the deep-set, widely spaced eyes beneath straight brows, a well-shaped, rather secretive mouth and strong greying hair swept upwards and curled into a chignon.	metaphorical	1
In her publicity photographs she could, he recalled, look beautiful in a somewhat intimidating, intellectual and very English mould.	metaphorical	1
But seen face to face, even in the informality of her own house, the absence of a spark of sexuality and, he sensed, a deep-seated reserve, made her seem less feminine and more formidable than he had expected, and she held herself stiffly as if repelling invaders of her personal space.	metaphorical	1
The handshake with which she had greeted him had been cool and firm and her brief smile was surprisingly attractive.	metaphorical	1
He knew that he was oversensitive to the timbre of the human voice and hers, although not jarring or unpleasant, sounded a little forced as if she were deliberately speaking at an unnatural pitch.	metaphorical	1
He followed her down the hall to the kitchen at the back of the house.	metaphorical	1
It was, he judged, almost twenty feet long and obviously served the triple purpose of sitting room, working place and office.	metaphorical	1
The right-hand half of the room was a well-equipped kitchen with a large gas stove and an Aga, a butcher's chopping block, a dresser to the right of the door holding an assortment of gleaming pots, and a long working surface with a wooden triangle sheathing her assortment of knives.	metaphorical	1
In the centre of the room was a large wooden table holding a stoneware jar of dried flowers.	metaphorical	1
On the left-hand wall was a working fireplace, the two recesses fitted with wall-to-ceiling bookshelves.	metaphorical	1
To each side of the hearth was a high-backed wicker armchair in an intricate closely woven design fitted with patchwork  cushions.	metaphorical	1
There was an open roll-top desk facing one of the wide windows and, to its right, a stable door, the top half open, gave a view of the paved courtyard.	metaphorical	1
Dalgliesh could glimpse what was obviously her herb garden planted in elegant terracotta pots carefully disposed to catch the sun.	metaphorical	1
The room, which contained nothing superfluous, nothing pretentious, was both pleasing and extraordinarily comforting and, for a moment, he wondered why.	literal	0
Was it the faint smell of herbs and newly baked dough, the soft ticking of the wall- mounted clock which seemed both to mark the passing seconds and yet to hold time in thrall, the rhythmic moaning of the sea through the half-open door, the sense of well-fed ease conveyed by the two cushioned armchairs, the open hearth?	metaphorical	1
Or was it that the kitchen reminded Dalgliesh of that rectory kitchen where the lonely only child had found warmth and undemanding, uncensorious companionship, been given hot dripping toast and small forbidden treats?	metaphorical	1
He placed the proofs on the desk, refused Alice Mair's offer of coffee and followed her back to the front door.	metaphorical	1
She walked out with him to the car and said:‘I was sorry about your aunt— sorry for you, I mean.	metaphorical	1
I expect that for an ornithologist death ceases to be terrible once sight and hearing begin to go.	metaphorical	1
And to die in one's sleep without distress to oneself or inconvenience to others is an enviable end.	metaphorical	1
But you had known her for so long that she must have seemed immortal.’	literal	0
Formal condolences, he thought, were never easy to speak or accept and usually sounded either banal or insincere.	metaphorical	1
Hers had been perceptive.	literal	0
Jane Dalgliesh had indeed seemed to him immortal.	metaphorical	1
The very old, he thought, make our past.	metaphorical	1
Once they go it seems for a moment that neither it nor we have any real existence.	metaphorical	1
He said:‘I do n't think death was ever terrible to her.	metaphorical	1
I'm not sure that I really knew her and I'm left wishing I'd tried harder.	literal	0
But I shall miss her.’	literal	0
Alice Mair said:‘I did n't know her either.	literal	0
Perhaps I should have tried harder too.	literal	0
She was a very private woman, I suspect one of those fortunate people who find no other company more agreeable than their own.	metaphorical	1
It always seems presumptuous to encroach on that self-sufficiency.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps you share it.	metaphorical	1
But if you can tolerate company, I'm having a few people, mostly colleagues of Alex from the power station, to dinner on Thursday night.	metaphorical	1
Would you care to join us?	literal	0
Seven thirty for eight.’	literal	0
It sounded, he thought, more like a challenge than an invitation.	literal	0
 Somewhat to his surprise, Dalgliesh found himself accepting.	metaphorical	1
But then the whole encounter had been a little surprising.	metaphorical	1
She stood regarding him with a serious intensity as he let in the clutch and turned the car and he had the impression that she was watching critically to see how he handled it.	metaphorical	1
But at least, he thought as he gave a final wave, she had n't asked him whether he had come to Norfolk to help catch the Whistler. 	metaphorical	1
Three minutes later he raised his foot from the accelerator.	literal	0
Ahead of him, trudging along on the left of the path, was a little group of children, the eldest girl wheeling a pushchair with two smaller children, one each side of her, clutching the bars.	literal	0
Hearing the noise of the car she turned and he saw a peaked, delicate face framed with red- gold hair.	metaphorical	1
He recognized the Blaney children, met once before with their mother walking along the beach.	literal	0
Obviously the eldest girl had been shopping: the folding pushchair had a shelf under the seat lumped high with plastic bags.	literal	0
Instinctively he slowed down.	literal	0
They were unlikely to be in real danger, the Whistler stalked at night, not in broad daylight, and no vehicle had passed him since he left the coastal road.	metaphorical	1
But the child looked grossly overburdened and ought not to be so far from home.	literal	0
Though he had never seen their cottage he seemed to remember that his aunt had told him that it lay about two miles to the south.	metaphorical	1
He recalled what he knew about them, that their father earned a precarious living as a painter whose innocuous, prettified watercolours were sold in cafés and tourist shops along the coast and that their mother had been desperately ill with cancer.	metaphorical	1
He wondered whether Mrs Blaney was still alive.	literal	0
His instinct was to pile the children into the car and drive them home but that, he knew, was hardly sensible.	literal	0
Almost certainly the eldest child— Theresa, was n't it?— had been taught not to accept lifts from strangers, particularly men, and he was virtually a stranger.	metaphorical	1
On an impulse he reversed the Jaguar and drove quickly back to Martyr's Cottage.	metaphorical	1
This time the front door was open and a swathe of sunlight lay across the red-tiled floor.	metaphorical	1
Alice Mair had heard the car and came out to him from the kitchen, wiping her hands.	literal	0
He said:‘The Blaney children are walking home.	literal	0
Theresa is wheeling a pushchair and trying to cope with the twins.	metaphorical	1
I thought I could offer a lift if I had a woman with me, someone they know.’	literal	0
She said briefly:‘They know me.’	literal	0
Without another word she went back into the kitchen then came out to him, closed the front door after her without locking it and got into the car.	metaphorical	1
Putting it into gear, his arm brushed her knee.	metaphorical	1
He was  aware of an almost imperceptible withdrawing, more emotional than physical, a small delicate gesture of self-containment.	metaphorical	1
Dalgliesh doubted whether that half- imagined recoil had anything to do with him personally, nor did he find her silence disconcerting.	metaphorical	1
Their conversation, when they did speak, was brief.	metaphorical	1
He asked:‘Is Mrs Blaney still alive?’	literal	0
‘No.	literal	0
She died six weeks ago.’	literal	0
‘How are they managing?’	metaphorical	1
‘Not particularly well, I imagine.	literal	0
But Ryan Blaney does n't welcome interference.	metaphorical	1
I sympathize.	literal	0
Once he lets down his defences half the social workers in Norfolk, amateur and professional, will move in on him.’	metaphorical	1
When they drew up beside the little band it was Alice Mair who opened the car door and spoke.	literal	0
‘Theresa, here is Mr Dalgliesh to give you all a lift.	metaphorical	1
He's Miss Dalgliesh's nephew from Larksoken Mill.	literal	0
One of the twins had better sit on my lap.	literal	0
The rest of you and the pushchair can fit into the back.’	metaphorical	1
Theresa looked at Dalgliesh without smiling and said a grave thank you.	metaphorical	1
She reminded him of pictures of the young Elizabeth Tudor, the same red- gold hair framing a curiously adult face both secretive and self-composed, the same sharp nose and wary eyes.	metaphorical	1
The faces of the twins, softer editions of her own, turned towards her questioningly then broke into shy smiles.	metaphorical	1
They looked as if they had been dressed in a hurry and not very suitably for a long walk on the headland, even in a warm autumn.	metaphorical	1
One wore a tattered summer dress in pink spotted cotton with double flounces, the other a pinafore over a checked blouse.	metaphorical	1
Their pathetically thin legs were unprotected.	literal	0
Theresa was wearing jeans and a grubby sweat shirt with a map of London's Underground across the front.	literal	0
Dalgliesh found himself wondering if it had been brought back from a school trip to the capital.	metaphorical	1
It was too large for her and the wide sleeves of limp cotton hung from her freckled arms like rags thrown over a stick.	metaphorical	1
In contrast to his sisters, Anthony was over-clad, a bundle of leggings, jumper and a padded jacket topped with a woollen helmet with a bobble pulled well down over his forehead, beneath which he surveyed their busyness, unsmiling, like a stout imperious Caesar.	metaphorical	1
Dalgliesh got out of the Jaguar and tried to extricate him from the pushchair, but the anatomy of the chair momentarily defeated him.	metaphorical	1
There was a bar beneath which the child's rigid legs were obstinately  stuck.	metaphorical	1
The solid uncooperative bundle was surprisingly heavy; it was like trying to manoeuvre a firm and rather smelly poultice.	metaphorical	1
Theresa gave him a brief, pitying smile, dragged the plastic bags from beneath the seat then expertly freed her brother and settled him on her left hip while, with the other hand, she collapsed the pushchair, with a single vigorous shake.	metaphorical	1
Dalgliesh took the baby from her while Theresa helped the children into the Jaguar and commanded with sudden fierceness,‘Sit still.’	metaphorical	1
Anthony, recognizing incompetence, grasped Dalgliesh's hair firmly with a sticky hand and he felt the momentary touch of a cheek, so soft that it was like the fall of a petal.	metaphorical	1
Throughout these manoeuvrings Alice Mair sat quietly watching from the car but made no move to help.	metaphorical	1
It was impossible to know what she was thinking.	literal	0
But once the Jaguar had moved away she turned to Theresa and said in a voice of surprising gentleness:‘Does your father know that you're out alone?’	metaphorical	1
‘Daddy has taken the van to Mr Sparks.	literal	0
It's due for its MOT test.	literal	0
Mr Sparks does n't think it's going to pass.	metaphorical	1
And I found we'd run out of milk for Anthony.	metaphorical	1
We have to have milk.	literal	0
And we wanted some more disposable nappies.’	literal	0
Alice Mair said:‘I'm giving a dinner party on Thursday evening.	metaphorical	1
If your father agrees, would you like to come and help with the table like you did last month?’	literal	0
‘What are you going to cook, Miss Mair?‘	literal	0
‘Put your head close so that I can whisper.	literal	0
Mr Dalgliesh is going to be one of the guests.	literal	0
I want it to be a surprise.‘	literal	0
The pale golden head leaned forward towards the grey and Miss Mair whispered.	metaphorical	1
Theresa smiled and then nodded with serious satisfaction in a moment of grave feminine conspiracy.	metaphorical	1
But next morning Ruth awakened early and, leaving Miss Beard to her gentle dreams, dressed quickly and hurried out of the house.	metaphorical	1
It was another golden day.	metaphorical	1
She still retained her English habit of noting each day's weather, always expecting changes, marvelling at the hot sunny days which followed one after the other, almost with monotony.	metaphorical	1
When she reached the plateau she remained standing, watching for Joss Barnet, waiting for the moment when she would see him riding towards her.	literal	0
There was no longer any need for her to be	literal	0
‘discovered’.	metaphorical	1
Her sole purpose in being there was to meet him and she was content that he should know it.	metaphorical	1
He was late this morning.	metaphorical	1
Or was she earlier than she thought?	literal	0
Had she misjudged the time?	metaphorical	1
No matter.	literal	0
She was happy to wait for him, certain that soon she would see him riding towards her.	literal	0
Then as the minutes passed and there was no sign of him, she considered that perhaps he had overslept.	metaphorical	1
It could happen.	literal	0
Or had his horse gone lame, cast a shoe?	literal	0
She sat down and prepared to wait as long as was necessary.	literal	0
She knew that in the end he would come.	metaphorical	1
After a few more minutes she became restless, and stood up again, her eyes searching the slope of the hillside and the valley below, trying to determine whether some small movement down there was a man on horseback or merely a trick of her imagination.	metaphorical	1
Should she set off down the hill to meet him?	literal	0
But perhaps he would come by another route and then she would miss him.	metaphorical	1
At the end of what she reckoned must be an hour, she faced the fact that he was not coming.	metaphorical	1
She dropped to the ground again and lay down, burying her face in the sweet- smelling grass.	metaphorical	1
She had been mistaken ever to think that he would come.	literal	0
She had let her overwhelming desire feed her imagination; had read something into his words, his looks,  his actions, which had not been there at all.	metaphorical	1
Her face burned with the shame of it.	metaphorical	1
Such was the feeling Joss Barnet had aroused in her, that not for one moment did it occur to her to blame him for anything.	metaphorical	1
It was all her fault.	metaphorical	1
Sick at heart, she wept.	metaphorical	1
Then she dried her eyes on the hem of her petticoat and went slowly back to the house.	metaphorical	1
‘So you've decided to put in an appearance?’	metaphorical	1
Cook said.	literal	0
‘I do seem to recall something about you offering to help me with the party preparations.	metaphorical	1
But of course if you've changed your mind…’	metaphorical	1
‘I have n't,’ Ruth snapped.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm ready to start now.	literal	0
I do n't want any breakfast.’	literal	0
‘Hoity-toity!	literal	0
What's the matter with everyone this morning?’	metaphorical	1
Cook demanded.	literal	0
‘There's Sean O'Farrell and the master left in a hurry this hour past for New York City, both without a bite inside them— and now you.’	metaphorical	1
‘Gone to New York?’	literal	0
‘That's what I said.’	metaphorical	1
With Mrs Cranbrook's words Ruth's appetite immediately returned.	metaphorical	1
So he had not failed her after all!	metaphorical	1
How could she have thought that he would?	literal	0
Something unforeseen and urgent had happened, since Sean had obviously known of it yesterday afternoon, and there had been no opportunity for him to inform her.	literal	0
Relief surged through her like a physical infusion of new blood.	metaphorical	1
‘I've changed my mind,’ she said.	metaphorical	1
‘I would like some breakfast.	literal	0
Suddenly I'm hungry.	literal	0
When will they be back?’	metaphorical	1
‘Sean?	literal	0
How should I know?	literal	0
I do n't understand business.	literal	0
What I do understand is that if the master's not home for the party tomorrow, the mistress wo n't be pleased— and that's putting it mildly.	metaphorical	1
Do n't you dawdle over your breakfast then, not if you intend to make yourself useful.	metaphorical	1
There's plenty to be done.’	literal	0
Ruth worked all that day as though she had the strength of ten.	metaphorical	1
They prepared chicken pies, the pastry as light as Ruth's heart, turtle soup, a haunch of venison, jellies, blancmanges, syllabubs, trifles, and a host of other dishes,  with still more to be done on the day of the party itself.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Cranbrook unbent so far as to show approval.	metaphorical	1
‘You've done very well,’ she conceded.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Carson, knowing how much was involved, had excused Ruth from all other duties until Anna's bedtime hour.	metaphorical	1
And now it approached.	metaphorical	1
She took off the voluminous apron Cook had lent her and went in search of her charge.	metaphorical	1
Anna was in tears.	metaphorical	1
‘We're going home,’ she sobbed.	literal	0
‘I do n't want to go back to Mrs Gutermann's.	literal	0
I want to stay with Edward.	literal	0
I want to live with him for ever and ever!’	literal	0
Ruth could think of few worse fates, but her stomach lurched at the thought of leaving Millfield.	metaphorical	1
‘How do you know we're leaving?’ she asked.	literal	0
‘Who told you?’	literal	0
‘Miss Fitch,’ Anna wailed.	literal	0
‘I do n't like Miss Fitch.	literal	0
I hate her!	literal	0
I daresay she wants me to go!’	literal	0
‘Perhaps she's mistaken,’ Ruth said, though she doubted if Miss Fitch was ever wrong.	literal	0
‘We'll ask your mama the moment she comes in.’	literal	0
‘I'm afraid it's true,’ Mrs Carson told them.	literal	0
‘Of course we were only invited for ten days or so.’	literal	0
Ruth had lost count of time.	metaphorical	1
To her, the long summer days had stretched ahead, world without end.	metaphorical	1
‘We are going to leave on Sunday,’ Mrs Carson went on.	metaphorical	1
‘Not too early in the day, since I daresay we shall all be tired after tomorrow's party.’	metaphorical	1
‘Anna tells me she never wants to leave Edward,’ Ruth said after the child had gone to sleep.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Carson smiled indulgently.	literal	0
‘Dearest Anna!	literal	0
She's a little young for a holiday infatuation, but we all have them sooner or later.	metaphorical	1
Thank goodness they never last!	metaphorical	1
And the more intense they are, the shorter the duration, so Anna should soon be over it.’	metaphorical	1
‘Will Mr Barnet be back for the party?’	metaphorical	1
Ruth asked.	literal	0
‘I expect you mean will O'Farrell be back,’ Mrs Carson said.	metaphorical	1
‘And the answer is, I do n't know.	literal	0
Mrs Barnet tells me that she expects her husband when she sees him.	literal	0
It's a fact  that American men seem to put business before everything.	metaphorical	1
Thank goodness Englishmen are not like that!’	metaphorical	1
Next morning Ruth was down in the kitchen early, eagerly hoping to find Sean there.	metaphorical	1
He could well have returned late at night and she not heard him, though she had stayed awake for a long time, listening for the sound of the horses, the carriage wheels on the drive.	metaphorical	1
There was no sign of Sean but Mrs Cranbrook was already at work.	metaphorical	1
‘I hope you're ready to help me,’ she said.	literal	0
‘Everybody is busy with this and that— as if food was n't the most important thing!’	metaphorical	1
‘I'll help, Mrs Cranbrook,’ Ruth agreed.	literal	0
‘They're not back then?’	metaphorical	1
She tried to sound nonchalant.	literal	0
‘Not back?	metaphorical	1
Oh, you mean O'Farrell and the master?	literal	0
Not that I know of.	literal	0
There's no telling when they‘U return.	literal	0
Sometimes they're gone for three or four days at a time.’	metaphorical	1
‘But surely… with the party?’	metaphorical	1
Mrs Cranbrook shrugged.	literal	0
‘He's a law unto himself, the master.	metaphorical	1
Not for the likes of you and me to question why.’	literal	0
The heart had gone out of the day.	metaphorical	1
Ruth fetched and carried and stirred and whipped, praying every moment that Joss Barnet would return before they left Millfield next day.	metaphorical	1
But when the day had dragged to evening— in spite of all there was to do the time now passed slowly— and still there was no sign of the two men, she began to lose hope.	metaphorical	1
In the evening, bone-tired, she left the kitchen and went to put a reluctant Anna to bed.	metaphorical	1
Then she turned to helping Mrs Carson.	metaphorical	1
She brushed her mistress's hair and piled it on top of her head in a cluster of curls, carefully and meticulously arranged to look quite casual.	metaphorical	1
It was a style Ruth had devised herself and Mrs Carson was delighted with the result.	metaphorical	1
‘It looks so different,’ she said.	literal	0
‘You really are quite clever at this, Ruth.	metaphorical	1
And now for my dress.’	literal	0
She looked beautiful in the yellow satin, the low-cut bodice tight against her slight figure, the skirt billowing out.	literal	0
But  Ruth had no heart either to appreciate or to envy her mistress.	metaphorical	1
Her spirits were at their lowest ebb.	metaphorical	1
Mrs Carson gave her maid a sharp, compassionate look.	metaphorical	1
She thought she knew the cause of this mood and in a way she was glad to see it.	metaphorical	1
At least it showed that the girl's mind was working in the right direction.	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't worry, Ruth,’ she said kindly.	literal	0
‘I dare say O'Farrell will be back tomorrow before we leave.	metaphorical	1
And if not, there is always New York when the Barnets return in the fall.	metaphorical	1
And now I sha n't need you again this evening, so apart from looking in on Anna from time to time, you may do just as you please.’	metaphorical	1
Had she not been so downhearted Ruth would have enjoyed herself.	literal	0
But she had given up all hope of Joss Barnet returning that evening and nothing else in the world mattered.	metaphorical	1
The party scene was pretty enough.	metaphorical	1
Coloured lanterns hung in the trees which fringed the lawn and bordered the lake beyond.	literal	0
Torchlights, flaring against the night sky and reflected in the water, had been set up wherever it was suitable.	metaphorical	1
Already the orchestra had begun to play and the elegantly dressed to appear.	literal	0
Ruth had no heart for it.	metaphorical	1
She climbed the stairs to her room, then undressed and went to bed, wetting the pillow with her tears which, held back all day, now flowed unchecked.	literal	0
Her only comfort was not to have Miss Beard in her room, to be able to suffer in solitude.	metaphorical	1
Though she thought sleep would never come, eventually it did.	metaphorical	1
She fell asleep to the sound of music drifting upwards from the drawing-room.	metaphorical	1
When she wakened it was still dark, the orchestra still playing, though it was not that which had aroused her.	metaphorical	1
Penetrating her sleep she had heard the faint click of the door latch, and then the familiar squeak of the hinge as the door to her room slowly opened.	metaphorical	1
She raised herself on one elbow, blinking her eyes, trying to see in the darkness.	metaphorical	1
But enough light came from the landing on to which the door opened to silhouette the man standing there.	metaphorical	1
It was Joss Barnet.	literal	0
Shock made her cry out, and he closed the door and moved  towards her in quick strides, putting his hand across her mouth to stop-her scream.	metaphorical	1
Then he sat on her bed and, without a word from either of them, she went willingly into his arms and was held close in his embrace.	metaphorical	1
She felt his heart beating strong and fast against hers.	metaphorical	1
They stayed like that for a long moment and then he said,‘Light the candle.’	metaphorical	1
‘I ca n't,’ she whispered.	literal	0
‘Someone will see the light under the door.’	literal	0
‘No matter if they do,’ he said.	literal	0
‘They will not think of me here.	literal	0
Only my coachman knows I am home.	literal	0
I have not yet joined the party.’	metaphorical	1
‘You came to me first?’	literal	0
She could hardly believe it.	literal	0
He would not tell her, this funny bewitching little English girl, that he had come to her first because he could not keep away from her.	metaphorical	1
She had been on his mind since the morning he had seen her from his horse; frightened yet defiant, sparking with anger.	metaphorical	1
Almost, but not quite, she had come between him and the work he had had to do in New York City.	metaphorical	1
The moment the work was done he had ordered his coachman to drive him back to Millfield as fast as the horses would go.	metaphorical	1
‘Light the candle,’ he repeated.	literal	0
Ruth's fingers trembled as she obeyed him.	metaphorical	1
Then she lay back on her pillow and they looked at each other as if it was for the first time.	literal	0
He traced the contours of her face with gentle fingers, outlining the curve of her mouth, stroking her temples.	metaphorical	1
Without any hurry, in spite of the impatience which had brought him here, he caressed the length of her neck and the slope of her shoulders.	metaphorical	1
From out of nowhere, Ruth remembered Dick Parker: but not, this time, the pleasure of her union with him, only the pain it had brought her on the Christmas Eve following.	metaphorical	1
And now although her whole body cried out for fulfilment and she longed for Joss Barnet to complete what he had surely come to do, she knew that she must not let it happen.	metaphorical	1
She turned her face away from him, pushed his hand from her.	literal	0
‘No!’ she cried.	literal	0
‘You must not!’ 	literal	0
He gave not the slightest sign of having heard her, continuing to stroke her neck, and now inserting his fingers under the neckline of her nightshift.	metaphorical	1
She tried again to push him away.	literal	0
‘Please!	literal	0
Please do n't!’ she cried.	literal	0
It was surprise which made him stop for a second.	metaphorical	1
He smiled at her, an unexpectedly tender smile.	metaphorical	1
‘I wo n't hurt you,’ he said.	literal	0
‘Do n't be afraid.’	literal	0
‘I'm not afraid of being hurt.’	literal	0
‘Then what…?’	literal	0
‘I'm afraid of afterwards,’ she said hesitantly.	literal	0
‘If I were to have a child.	metaphorical	1
It would be the end of the world for me.’	metaphorical	1
‘But you wo n't,’ he assured her.	literal	0
‘I'll see to that.	metaphorical	1
I'm not totally callous.’	literal	0
‘You promise?’	literal	0
‘I promise.’	literal	0
She lay quiescent and felt his strong fingers, quicker now, move to unfasten the buttons of her shift one by one.	metaphorical	1
And when he had undone her gown, and had difficulty in lifting it over her head, she raised herself from the pillow and helped him to take it off.	metaphorical	1
Then he pulled down the sheet, which was all the bedclothes she had needed on that warm night, and she lay naked before him.	metaphorical	1
She observed him without shame as he looked at every part of her.	metaphorical	1
Her pleasure was in him, and in his delight of her.	metaphorical	1
When, at last, he stripped off his clothes and came into her, it was as if this was the moment to which all her life had been leading.	metaphorical	1
He was a skilful lover: tender and gentle in the beginning, then powerful, persistent, rough almost— until, his passion rising in harmony with hers, the climax came like the bursting of a thousand stars, like the beginning and ending of the world.	metaphorical	1
Afterwards they lay quietly side by side, not speaking, until he said,‘I must go.’	literal	0
‘Not yet,’ she begged.	literal	0
‘You ca n't leave me yet.’	literal	0
She turned over and lay on top of him, trying to pin him down with her own slight weight, and he began to fondle her  and she him, and almost at once they were making love again.	metaphorical	1
‘You are a sorceress,’ he told her when it was all over.	metaphorical	1
‘An enchantress.	metaphorical	1
Women as tempting as you should be kept out of the sight of mortal men.’	metaphorical	1
‘You're not a mortal man,’ Ruth said.	literal	0
‘You're a god!’	metaphorical	1
He laughed out loud.	literal	0
‘Hush!’ she cautioned.	literal	0
‘Someone will hear you.’	literal	0
‘I'm a real man all right,’ he said.	literal	0
‘As I've just proved to you.	metaphorical	1
And would again if time allowed.’	metaphorical	1
Then he stood up and quickly began to dress.	literal	0
‘I must go and do my duty as a host for what's left of the night.’	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't leave me,’ she begged.	literal	0
‘Please stay!’	literal	0
He looked at her in surprise, spoke brusquely.	metaphorical	1
‘But of course I must go.	literal	0
There's no question.’	literal	0
Long afterwards Ruth realised that this was the moment when she had learned that she could never come first with him.	metaphorical	1
However much he might desire her, she would have no more than the allotted space in his life.	metaphorical	1
‘When am I going to see you again?’ she asked.	literal	0
That, also, was the wrong thing to say.	metaphorical	1
‘I ca n't make plans,’ he said sharply.	metaphorical	1
‘But we leave tomorrow!’ she exclaimed.	literal	0
That took him by surprise.	metaphorical	1
‘The deuce you do!	metaphorical	1
Well I shall see to that.	metaphorical	1
My wife will extend the invitation to the Carsons.	metaphorical	1
I take it they're not promised elsewhere?’	metaphorical	1
‘Oh no,’ Ruth said.	literal	0
‘We're going back to New York City.’	literal	0
He finished dressing, then came and held her by the shoulders, kissing her lightly on the mouth.	literal	0
As he was leaving he turned around and threw a small box on to the bed.	literal	0
‘From the city,’ he said.	literal	0
‘You see that I had you in my mind!’	metaphorical	1
He was out of the room before she could open the box, a dark blue leather affair, lined with white velvet, against which lay a fine gold chain with a small oval locket set  around the edge with seed pearls.	metaphorical	1
She gasped in amazement.	metaphorical	1
It was without doubt the most beautiful thing she had ever owned, or ever would.	metaphorical	1
Such delicacy, such refinement!	metaphorical	1
Her fingers trembling with excitement, she fastened it around her neck.	metaphorical	1
It should remain there for ever.	literal	0
She would never take it off.	literal	0
Ellen and I lingered on in Mama Sipcott's for another hour and a half; indulging in the sailor's shorebound pastime of planning the perfect voyage.	metaphorical	1
We decided that Masquerade would sail from the Bahamas to Panama, and thence to the Galapagos where we would find Darwin's giant tortoises.	literal	0
Then we would sail south to Easter Island to explore the mysterious statues before going to the mutineers' refuge on Pitcairn Island.	metaphorical	1
After that we would go to Tahiti, and I saw the excitement grow in Ellen as she realised that these plans were so close to coming true.	metaphorical	1
It was an excitement that matched my own, for I had never sailed the South Seas and I had long dreamed of that scatter of tiny, magically named islands strewn across one third of a globe.	metaphorical	1
By the time we had drunk our third bottle of wine Ellen and I had long reached New Zealand and were already sailing north towards New Caledonia.	metaphorical	1
We were happy.	literal	0
We caught the bus back to Ellen's apartment and collected her clothes and notebooks.	metaphorical	1
She was moving back on board Wavebreaker in preparation for the next day's early departure.	metaphorical	1
I carried her luggage to the yard, noting that even Ellen's strident feminism evaporated in the face of two heavy bags and tropical heat.	metaphorical	1
Once in the boatyard Ellen ran ahead of me, evidently eager to reach Wavebreaker's air conditioning.	literal	0
Then, as she reached the dock's edge, she suddenly checked.	literal	0
‘What on earth is that?	literal	0
Oh, no!’	literal	0
She began to run again.	literal	0
When I reached the water's edge I understood her dismay.	literal	0
A large sports-fishing boat was moored alongside Wavebreaker, but moored so crudely that whoever had brought the powerboat alongside the schooner had not bothered to put out fenders, but instead had gouged long ugly gashes in Wavebreaker's white paint.	metaphorical	1
Yet even the gashes were not so ugly as the expensive boat that had caused them.	literal	0
There was nothing wrong with the boat's lines, which were sleekly functional, but her long powerful hull, her upperworks, and even the interior of her capacious  working deck had all been painted with a wartime dazzle paint.	metaphorical	1
The seemingly random and jagged-edged pattern of blue, black, silver, green and white had been designed to disguise a boat's shape from the prying eyes of U-Boat captains, so it seemed somewhat fanciful to thus camouflage a pleasure boat in the Bahamas.	metaphorical	1
This boat was called Dream Baby, and she was clearly an expensive infant for rods and whip- aerials and outriggers splayed from her upperworks like the antennae of some outlandish insect.	metaphorical	1
She boasted a harpoon walkway, a fly bridge, and, above the highest wheel-platform, an aluminium canopy which held a radar aerial.	metaphorical	1
The fighting chair on her aft deck had thick white leather straps giving it the appearance of a padded electric chair, while the dazzle paint gave the boat an oddly military look that was completed by the number 666 that was painted on her bows in silver-edged black numerals like those warships use to display their commissioning numbers.	metaphorical	1
The boat's wrap-around windscreens were made of black polarised glass which only added to Dream Baby's ugly air of menace.	metaphorical	1
Ellen, unencumbered with luggage, had already reached Wavebreaker and taken two plastic fenders from a locker.	metaphorical	1
She swung lithely down to Dream Baby's gaudily painted deck and cushioned the two hulls.	literal	0
‘How bad is the damage?’	literal	0
I called down to her when I reached Wavebreaker.	metaphorical	1
‘It's scraped back to bare metal!’	metaphorical	1
‘I'll give it some paint.’	metaphorical	1
Wavebreaker's hull was made of steel and, while such hulls are marvellously strong and safe, they are soon weakened if their steel is exposed to salt air.	metaphorical	1
I had to paint the gashes as soon as possible so that rust would not begin to bite into Wavebreaker's long sleekness.	metaphorical	1
Ellen looked around the oddly painted powerboat.	literal	0
‘You'd think someone rich enough to own a rig like this could afford a pair of fenders.’	literal	0
‘Who cares?	literal	0
Just cut the damn boat loose,’ I said vengefully.	literal	0
Ellen ignored my advice while I, obedient to the rule that if  a job needed doing then do it without delay, found a pot of white paint and dug through the locker for a clean brush.	metaphorical	1
Then, from behind me, an unfamiliar voice sounded:‘Oh, ring my bells.’	metaphorical	1
It was a man's voice; drawling and lazy.	metaphorical	1
I twisted around and almost blinded myself by staring straight into the sun, but then, through the dizzying glare, I made out the long silhouette of a tall man who seemed, incongruously, to be dressed in a long, transparent dressing gown.	metaphorical	1
He was emerging in stately fashion from Wavebreaker's companion way and, though I could see he was tall and lanky and had a ponytail of hair, I could make out no details of his face.	metaphorical	1
‘Who the hell are you?’	metaphorical	1
I demanded.	literal	0
The man ignored me, walking instead towards Ellen who, dressed only in shorts and T-shirt, was climbing long-legged over Wavebreaker's rail.	literal	0
‘Be still my restless heart,’ the man had a strong, caressing voice and the slow luscious accent of America's deep south.	metaphorical	1
‘Dear lady, dear lady, to think that I might have lived my whole life through and never seen you.	metaphorical	1
Oh, lay me down, just lay me down.’	literal	0
Ellen, usually so quick with a scornful reply, just stood and stared at the elegant stranger who stopped one pace away from her, took her hand, then bowed above her fingers.	metaphorical	1
He kissed the air a fastidiously polite inch above her knuckles, then closed his eyes.	literal	0
‘Dear sweet Lord above, I do thank Thee for Thy kindness in showing me this lovely woman before I died.’	metaphorical	1
To my astonishment and chagrin Ellen left her hand in his as he opened his eyes and smiled at her.	metaphorical	1
‘My name,’ he stroked her with his voice,‘is Jesse Isambard Sweetman.	metaphorical	1
And who, dear creature, are you?’	literal	0
Ellen still said nothing.	literal	0
I had straightened up and moved aside so that the sun no longer dazzled me and I could see Sweetman properly, and what I saw I did not like.	literal	0
His face was old and young, sardonic and knowing, amused and handsome; the face of a man who has seen the world's wickedness and knows how to match it with his own.	metaphorical	1
His long black hair was tied into its ponytail with a velvet ribbon, his skin was parchment pale, and his eyes dark.	metaphorical	1
I put his age at forty, but  even among men twenty years younger he would have been accounted handsome, and he knew it, for his expression showed both confidence and amusement as he continued to hold Ellen's hand, and he showed even more amusement when she suddenly realised just what liberty she was thus granting him and jerked her fingers swiftly away.	metaphorical	1
Thus released, Jesse Sweetman turned to look at me.	literal	0
The dressing gown had proved to be a long, stylish, ankle-length duster coat which was loosely woven from a delicate white cotton.	literal	0
Beneath the filmy topcoat he wore a black shirt and black trousers that were tucked into tall black boots.	literal	0
It was a dramatic and impractical outfit of a kind I only expected to see on the male models who posed in the more outlandish fashion magazines that our rich clients brought aboard Wavebreaker, yet Jesse Isambard Sweetman managed to wear the elaborate style with an elegant insouciance.	metaphorical	1
The only incongruous note was a cheap round badge, enamelled in red and yellow, that he wore on his shirt, which bore the legend‘Just Say No!’.	metaphorical	1
‘You must be Nicholas Breakspear,’ he said carelessly, as though he did not much care whether I was or not.	literal	0
‘Is that gaudy piece of junk your boat?’	literal	0
I gestured to where Dream Baby's aerials showed above Wavebreaker's gunwale.	literal	0
Sweetman turned and pretended to notice the sports-fishing boat for the first time.	literal	0
‘No,’ he said helpfully, then bestowed a patronising smile on me.	metaphorical	1
‘You look so like your father.	literal	0
It's really uncanny.’	literal	0
‘Did you bring that boat here?’	literal	0
I persevered.	literal	0
‘Oh, indeed I did,’ he said brightly, as though he merely indulged a rather dim child's curiosity.	metaphorical	1
‘Your mother was Malise Fielding, am I right?	literal	0
Or are you Lucy de Sills’ son?’	literal	0
‘Why the hell did n't you use fenders when you tied alongside?’	metaphorical	1
He sighed, intimating what a bore I was being.	literal	0
‘I did not use fenders, Breakspear, because I despise precautions.	literal	0
Precautions are the symptoms of small and fearful minds.	metaphorical	1
Precautions will not conquer empires, they will not build great cities, they will not transmute dreams into gold or carry  men across wide oceans, and precautions will not, emphatically not, win fair ladies,’ and here he turned to Ellen and lasciviously dropped his gaze to her long bare legs.	metaphorical	1
Ellen twisted away and Sweetman laughed at her obvious discomfiture, then, as coolly as though he owned Wavebreaker, he stepped down into the central cockpit where he first brushed at, then sat on, one of the white cushioned seats by the ship's wheel.	metaphorical	1
‘I've had a look round the boat,’ he said very coolly,‘and I approve of her.	metaphorical	1
So tell me the cost of a week's charter.’	literal	0
‘The man you want to see,’ I said,‘is called Matthew McIllvanney and his office is the pink building with the outside staircase.	literal	0
He's not here this afternoon, but you can doubtless telephone him next week.’	metaphorical	1
Sweetman took a pair of polarised sunglasses from his shirt pocket and put them on before inspecting me again.	metaphorical	1
He did not seem to like what he saw.	literal	0
‘You're really not being noticeably helpful,’ he said after a pause,‘so let us try again shall we?	metaphorical	1
Would you please tell me the high season price for one week?’	metaphorical	1
‘How many passengers?’	literal	0
Ellen asked before I could refuse to answer.	literal	0
Sweetman paused again, this time to light a long pale blue cigarette with a slim gold lighter.	metaphorical	1
He shrugged.	literal	0
‘Two, four, six passengers?	literal	0
Does it really matter?’	literal	0
‘One week in high season costs ten thousand US dollars for two people, and every extra couple is another thousand bucks.’	metaphorical	1
Ellen's voice was cold, as though she disliked satisfying his curiosity.	metaphorical	1
‘And to those prices you have to add the boat's running costs.’	metaphorical	1
‘Which are?’	literal	0
Sweetman asked carelessly.	literal	0
‘A lot.’	metaphorical	1
Ellen said flatly.	literal	0
‘You're talking fuel, food and liquor, plus any toys you might want aboard like scuba equipment, snorkels, jet-skis or sailboards.’	literal	0
Sweetman drew on his fancy cigarette, then blew a plume of smoke into Wavebreaker's rigging before smiling lazily at Ellen.	metaphorical	1
‘And tell me, sweet creature, do you count as a toy?	metaphorical	1
Or are you a part of the initial ten thousand dollars?’ 	metaphorical	1
‘Get off the boat,’ I said.	literal	0
‘Shut up.’	literal	0
He turned on me like a snake.	metaphorical	1
‘You're nothing but a hired hand, Breakspear, so shut the fuck up.’	literal	0
He glanced at the paint pot and brush that I was still holding.	literal	0
‘Go and paint something.	literal	0
Be useful.’	literal	0
He stared into my eyes, challenging me to defy him, and when I did not move he looked back to Ellen.	metaphorical	1
‘I asked you a question, dear heart.	metaphorical	1
Please be so good as to answer.’	literal	0
‘Get off this boat,’ I told him, but my anger only amused Sweetman who unfolded his long thin legs from the cushioned thwart.	literal	0
‘Dick off,’ he said to me.	metaphorical	1
I was surprised that he so eagerly sought to confront me.	metaphorical	1
I am not a small man, nor am I a weakling, yet the thin Sweetman seemed unconcerned as I jumped down into the cockpit.	metaphorical	1
Then I saw why he was so confident.	literal	0
He put a hand into a pocket of his elegant duster coat and brought out a small.22 pistol that he pointed at my face.	literal	0
‘A ladies’ gun,’ he said,‘but remarkably effective at close range.’	literal	0
‘Nick!’	literal	0
Ellen called warningly, as though I might not have seen the gun.	literal	0
The gun's threat had not stopped my advance.	metaphorical	1
I was calling Sweetman's bluff, confident he would not dare pull the trigger, and equally confident that my marine training would let me turn him into mincemeat.	metaphorical	1
I was also half drunk, and thus filled with the Dutch courage offered by Mama Sipcott's worst white wine.	metaphorical	1
Sweetman stood.	literal	0
There was, at last, a look of alarm on his face, and I could see him wondering whether he really would have to pull the small trigger.	literal	0
He held the gun pointed at my eyes.	literal	0
We beat southwards all that first day, slicing through a glittering sea, and propelled by an apparently changeless south-easterly trade wind.	metaphorical	1
We hardly saw the Crowninshield twins.	literal	0
They briefly appeared on deck for lunch; a meal which Rickie hardly touched, while Robin-Anne, despite her apparent frailty, attacked the sandwiches and salad with the savagery of a starving bear.	metaphorical	1
Afterwards, incongruously dressed in a raincoat, she went to the bows and stared briefly down at the mesmerising onrush of sea where it split and foamed at Wavebreaker's cutwater.	metaphorical	1
She did not stay there long, but retreated from the fierce sun to the stern-cabin that she would be sharing with Ellen.	metaphorical	1
The contrast between the two American girls was almost painful; Ellen was so healthy and strong, while the waif-like Robin-Anne was pathetically wan and listless.	metaphorical	1
‘What do you think of her?’	literal	0
I asked Ellen that afternoon.	metaphorical	1
Ellen gave me an amused glance.	metaphorical	1
‘Little Orphan Annie?	metaphorical	1
It's hard to believe she's about to be worth six million dollars.	metaphorical	1
Still, she's got precious little else going for her.’	metaphorical	1
I smiled at the severity of Ellen's judgment.	metaphorical	1
‘Is she that bad?’	metaphorical	1
‘She has a distressingly simple mind, with only room for a single idea at any one time.	metaphorical	1
Presently that idea is cocaine, and nothing but cocaine.	metaphorical	1
She has an obsession with the drug that verges on monomania.	metaphorical	1
She tells me she needs to understand it if she's going to defeat it.’	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't you approve of that?’	metaphorical	1
‘I think she'd do better to understand herself,’ Ellen said tartly.	metaphorical	1
‘She allowed a man to persuade her into taking the drug, so she can only blame herself for her predicament.	metaphorical	1
She'd find it more useful to understand her own character short­comings than to take an elementary course in drug chemistry.’	metaphorical	1
‘What do you make of Rickie?’	metaphorical	1
I asked.	literal	0
‘He's precisely what anyone would expect of a drop-out Phys Ed basketball-playing retard,’ Ellen said scornfully,‘by which I mean that he's a jock with the brains of a dung beetle.	metaphorical	1
 He reminds me of your Neanderthal friend, the Maggot, except Rickie is a great deal more handsome.’	metaphorical	1
‘Is he?’	literal	0
She laughed at the suspicion of jealousy in my voice.	metaphorical	1
‘Yes, Nicholas, he is.	literal	0
But he's not cute.’	literal	0
At supper, as at lunch, Robin-Anne ate with the appetite of a horse, though her brother hardly touched his chicken and pasta salad.	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't you like pasta?’	literal	0
Ellen, who was perversely proud of her skills in the salad department, asked Rickie with just a touch of asperity.	metaphorical	1
‘It's great.	metaphorical	1
Really awesome.’	literal	0
Rickie lit a cigarette.	literal	0
‘I just guess I'm not hungry.’	literal	0
Robin-Anne reached over and tipped her brother's food on to her own plate.	literal	0
‘Kind of starving,’ she justified her theft, then poured herself some diet soda.	metaphorical	1
For once we were carrying neither wine nor spirits on Wavebreaker, for Jackson Chatterton's drug clinic had utterly forbidden us to offer the twins any alcohol, saying that any mood-altering drug could hamper the success of a detoxification programme.	metaphorical	1
We were thus officially a dry boat, though I had hidden some Irish whiskey in the engine room, and I was sure that Ellen would have similarly salted away some vodka.	metaphorical	1
It seemed that Ellen and I were not the only ones to take such a precaution, for late that night Jackson Chatterton lumbered on deck with a bottle in one huge hand.	metaphorical	1
‘Bourbon,’ he explained laconically.	literal	0
‘Want some?’	literal	0
‘I thought you'd never ask.’	literal	0
He chuckled, produced two cardboard cups, and poured me a generous slug of the whiskey.	metaphorical	1
We were alone on deck, though not the only ones awake for I could hear Rickie and Ellen's voices coming from the open skylight of the main saloon.	metaphorical	1
I hoped Thessy was fast asleep for he would be taking the morning watch.	metaphorical	1
‘Cheers,’ I said.	literal	0
Chatterton raised his cardboard cup in silent acknowledgement, then stared ahead to where a great beam swept around the sky.	metaphorical	1
‘A lighthouse?’ he asked in a voice which suggested that a prudent man avoided such things. 	metaphorical	1
I nodded.	literal	0
‘It's called the Hole in the Wall.	literal	0
Once we're past it we can turn out to the open ocean.	literal	0
Things will be a bit livelier then.’	metaphorical	1
‘Livelier?’	literal	0
‘We'll have a bit more sea, kick up some spray.’	literal	0
I had spoken enthusiastically, but Jackson Chatterton seemed unmoved by the prospect.	metaphorical	1
‘What are your plans?’ he asked me.	metaphorical	1
I had nothing particular planned, merely an idea that it might be interesting to thrash our way out into the open ocean, though, mindful of the danger of tropical storms, I had no intention of going too far from the safe shelter of a Bahamian hurricane hole.	metaphorical	1
But I fancied feeling the long hard pressure of ocean waves against our hull and, though we were short-handed, I reckoned that a few days out of sight of land would shake us all down quickly.	metaphorical	1
I explained all that to Chatterton, but stressed that we would run for cover at the first sign of trouble.	metaphorical	1
He must have assumed that I meant trouble from the twins, for he suddenly became surprisingly loquacious.	metaphorical	1
‘They wo n't give you any grief in the next few days,’ he said.	metaphorical	1
‘Now that they ca n't get hold of cocaine they'll just crash out.’	metaphorical	1
I grimaced.	literal	0
‘Does that mean they'll be seeing green monkeys and blue snakes up the rigging?’	metaphorical	1
Chatterton poured himself more bourbon, then put the bottle within my reach on the binnacle shelf.	literal	0
‘Coming off cocaine is n't like that.	metaphorical	1
At first they'll just want to do nothing but eat and sleep.	literal	0
It's the opposite of a cocaine high, you see.’	metaphorical	1
He paused.	literal	0
‘The difficult bit starts two or three days later.	metaphorical	1
That's when the real hell begins.’	metaphorical	1
‘For all of us?’	literal	0
‘It wo n't be easy,‘he said grimly, and I was suddenly rather glad to have the taciturn Chatterton aboard.	literal	0
The big man had obviously come on deck to warn me what to expect from the twins, and for that I was grateful.	metaphorical	1
‘I noticed that Rickie was n't eating today,’ I said,‘but Robin-Anne was?’ 	literal	0
Chatterton nodded.	literal	0
‘Rickie may have stopped his cocaine a day or two ago, which means he's probably already over the crash period.	metaphorical	1
I promise you one thing; he's brought none of it on board.	metaphorical	1
I searched him and his luggage, and he was clean.’	metaphorical	1
The big man thought for a few seconds, then laughed.	literal	0
‘He'd better be clean!	metaphorical	1
That turkey has got one chance of avoiding jail, just one, and that chance is by proving to the judge that he's cleaned up his act.	metaphorical	1
And if he does n't do that, then the man will send Rickie's plump young ass down to the gang-rape squad in the county jail.’	metaphorical	1
Chatterton did not sound unduly worried at that prospect.	metaphorical	1
‘Can we be sure Robin-Anne did n't bring any of the drug aboard?’	literal	0
I asked.	literal	0
‘She wo n't have done that,’ Chatterton said with conviction.	metaphorical	1
‘That girl is serious about giving it up, real serious, heavy serious!	metaphorical	1
That girl is really trying!	metaphorical	1
She studies the drug, you know?	literal	0
Like it was her enemy.’	metaphorical	1
Chatterton had spoken with genuine admiration.	metaphorical	1
I glanced up at the sails, down at the compass, then ahead to where the lighthouse loom arced powerfully through the night.	metaphorical	1
‘So what are the twins, chances?’	literal	0
‘Depends on their will power,'cause nothing else will do it for them.	metaphorical	1
There ai n't no pill to get you off the powder, Mr Breakspear, only will power.	metaphorical	1
And let me tell you, coming off coke is the hardest damn thing in the world, and you're real lucky if you have a rich daddy who pays for people to hold your hand while you go through the hell of it.	metaphorical	1
The twins’ daddy has paid for you and me, Mr Breakspear, and for everyone else on board this boat, but even with all that money and all this boat, we still might not succeed with them.’	metaphorical	1
‘It's that hard?’	metaphorical	1
‘It is that hard,’ he said ominously, and I thought of John Maggovertski's sadness for a pretty girl who had whored herself to pay for the white powder.	metaphorical	1
‘And it's even harder,’ Jackson Chatterton's voice was suddenly sinister,‘for a poor person who has no one to help them.’	metaphorical	1
I stared at Jackson Chatterton, and at last sensed the drama  that lay behind his big calm presence.	metaphorical	1
‘Why did you leave the army, Mr Chatterton?’	literal	0
I asked after a long pause.	metaphorical	1
‘I guess you can guess,’ he said.	literal	0
I guessed, but did not make him confirm my guess.	metaphorical	1
Instead I	literal	0
asked whether the American army had helped him to kick his drug habit.	metaphorical	1
‘Sure they tried, they tried real hard, but back then I did n't	metaphorical	1
want to be helped.’	literal	0
‘But you still got off cocaine?	metaphorical	1
On your own?’	metaphorical	1
‘Eventually.’	literal	0
The light inside the binnacle glossed his black	metaphorical	1
face with a sheen of red, sparking his eyes like fire.	metaphorical	1
He was not looking at me, but staring doggedly ahead into the turning white light of the Hole in the Wall.	metaphorical	1
‘And I had to lose a good, good woman before I came to my senses.	metaphorical	1
But I did kick the drug, Mr Breakspear, and it was probably the hardest damned thing I ever did in all my life.	metaphorical	1
But once I'd done it, I swore I'd help others do it.’	literal	0
‘Even the very rich?’	literal	0
I asked provocatively.	literal	0
‘The rich trash pay the bills, Mr Breakspear, which lets me give my spare time away to the poor trash.’	metaphorical	1
I looked at the tough, impressive face.	metaphorical	1
‘Are the twins trash?’	metaphorical	1
He paused before replying, then gave the smallest shake of his head.	metaphorical	1
‘She's OK, but him?’	literal	0
This time the pause was almost eloquent, then he gave a richly contagious laugh.	metaphorical	1
‘I'd have liked to have had Rickie Crowninshield in my platoon for just five minutes.’	metaphorical	1
I laughed too.	literal	0
‘Good to have you aboard.’	metaphorical	1
‘It ai n't bad being aboard,’ he said, and held out his hand and, not before time, we shook.	metaphorical	1
By midnight I was alone on deck, and happy to be alone.	metaphorical	1
I like sailing alone at night.	metaphorical	1
I like to watch the phosphorescence curling away from the hull and I like to watch the brilliant specks of light fade in the black deep water far in the ship's wake.	metaphorical	1
I like to be alone under the careless profusion of the stars, and alone on a moon-glossed sea.	metaphorical	1
I like the sounds of a boat sailing at night.	metaphorical	1
The sounds are  the same as those of daylight, yet somehow the night magnifies and sharpens the creak of a yielding block, the sigh of air over a shroud, the stretching of a sail, the hiss of water sliding sleek against the hull, the curl of a quarter-wave falling away, and the thump as a wave strikes the cutwater to be sheared into two bright slices of whiteness.	metaphorical	1
I like the purposefulness of a boat at night as it slits a path across an empty planet.	metaphorical	1
I like the secretiveness of a boat in the blackness, when the only thing to dislike is the prospect of dawn, which seems like a betrayal because, at night, in a boat under sail, it is easy to feel very close to God— for eternity is all around.	metaphorical	1
I tacked the ship shortly after midnight, doing the job by myself and enjoying the work.	metaphorical	1
Ellen was still awake, talking in the stateroom with Rickie, but everyone else seemed asleep.	literal	0
I wished that Ellen and Rickie would go to their beds, for the soft mutter of their voices was an intrusion on the dark and star- studded infinity through which I steered Wavebreaker.	metaphorical	1
The picture, very like the one Rufus Fletcher had taken in the summer of 1976, occupied the screen for about fifteen seconds.	metaphorical	1
The whole item was allowed no more than four times that in the BBC's Sunday evening news broadcast at 6.30.	metaphorical	1
The other forty-five seconds were taken up by a policeman talking to a reporter about having nothing to say except that there would be an inquest.	metaphorical	1
But Shiva and Lili Manjusri saw the picture and so did Rufus Fletcher.	literal	0
Adam Verne-Smith, unwinding in Puerto de la Cruz, did not of course see it.	metaphorical	1
He did not even see an English newspaper.	literal	0
They were expensive to buy and came a day late.	metaphorical	1
He did not want to be reminded of home and the only paper he even glanced at was the International Herald Tribune, a copy of which Anne found on the beach.	literal	0
His father, at home in Edgware, said to his wife:	metaphorical	1
‘Good God, Wyvis Hall, as I live and breathe.’	literal	0
Beryl Verne-Smith peered, but the picture immediately vanished.	literal	0
‘Yes, I suppose it was.’	literal	0
The policeman talked, the reporter trying to jog him into revelations and failing.	metaphorical	1
In the background, autumnal trees could be seen and a church on the summit of a low hill.	literal	0
Lewis Verne-Smith sat shaking his head, less as a gesture of denial than of a generalized despair at the state of the world.	metaphorical	1
It was not that unpleasant memories were evoked, for these were always with  him, his existence was inseparable from that old bitterness, but that a sight of the house, even the glimpse of a photograph, revived the precise feelings he had had— why, it must be getting on for eleven years ago.	metaphorical	1
‘Ten and a half,’ said his wife.	literal	0
‘I shall have to get in touch with the police.	literal	0
No two ways about it, I shall have to get in touch with them.’	metaphorical	1
‘Not this evening, surely?’ said Beryl, who wanted to watch Mastermind.	metaphorical	1
Lewis said nothing.	literal	0
The room in which they were sitting underwent the curious shrinking process to which it was subject whenever he was reminded of Wyvis Hall or his Uncle Hilbert or even if the county of Suffolk were mentioned.	metaphorical	1
Suddenly it grew small and poky.	literal	0
The brick side-wall of his neighbour's house seemed to have moved itself four or five feet further towards the dividing fence, so that it loomed offensively.	metaphorical	1
Lewis got up and pulled the curtains across with a pettish jerk of his hands.	metaphorical	1
‘Should n't you wait until Adam gets back?’	literal	0
Beryl said.	literal	0
‘Why?	literal	0
What would that be in aid of?’	metaphorical	1
Beryl meant that Adam had been among the previous owners of Wyvis Hall while her husband had not, but she knew better than to point this out.	metaphorical	1
‘There is no one living knows that lovely place better than 1.’	metaphorical	1
‘That's true.’	metaphorical	1
‘I sha n't wait till Adam returns,’ Lewis said in that manner that had once led his daughter to call him the Frog Footman,	metaphorical	1
‘but I shall wait until tomorrow.’	metaphorical	1
Men and women do not usually put their baser feelings and intentions into words, not even in the deep recesses of their own minds.	metaphorical	1
So Lewis did not say, even to himself, when he was privately considering trying to get hold of his son in Tenerife, that he disliked Adam and would have been pleased to spoil his holiday.	metaphorical	1
Instead, he rationalized his thoughts and justified himself Adam probably— indeed, almost certainly— knew  nothing about the find in the pine wood, but Adam had once owned the house and had thus taken on a responsibility.	metaphorical	1
He could not shed that responsibility just because he had sold the place.	metaphorical	1
Lewis would have agreed with Oscar Wilde that our past is what we are.	metaphorical	1
We can not rid ourselves of it.	literal	0
Therefore it was Adam's duty to come home and face the music, even though this might be no more than a short blast on a tin whistle.	metaphorical	1
But he had no precise idea where Adam was and he did not think Adam's travel agent(a personal friend of the young Verne-Smiths) would tell him.	metaphorical	1
Some excuse would be made for not telling him.	metaphorical	1
Lewis's bark, anyway, was always worse than his bite.	metaphorical	1
He had virtually no bite, as he had once overheard Adam say to Bridget, and heard it with helpless chagrin.	metaphorical	1
‘A bloody good thing or our childhood would have been a misery instead of just a bore.’	metaphorical	1
Lewis walked into his local police station in Edgware on Monday morning.	metaphorical	1
They seemed surprised to see him but not astonished.	literal	0
The Suffolk police had begun hunting up previous owners of Wyvis Hall and they had been alerted that a Verne-Smith lived in their area.	metaphorical	1
There were, after all, only two in the London phone directory.	metaphorical	1
This might be a bonus.	metaphorical	1
He was asked to wait and then shown into a room where a detective sergeant prepared to take a statement from him.	metaphorical	1
With busy pomposity Lewis dictated it to a typist and would have gone on and on had he not been diplomatically restrained.	metaphorical	1
‘Wyvis Hall, Nunes, Suffolk, and the twenty acres of land surrounding it were the property, through his marriage, of my uncle, Hilbert Verne-Smith.	metaphorical	1
They came into the possession of my son Hilbert John Adam Verne-Smith under my uncle's will, bypassing myself, though my son was no more than nineteen at the time of my uncle's death.	metaphorical	1
Being an undergraduate at the time, my son naturally never considered actually residing in the house.	metaphorical	1
He was in agreement with my suggestion that the property be sold and before he returned to college in the autumn of 1976, he took my advice and placed house and lands in the hands of an estate agent. 	metaphorical	1
‘Country properties were not selling well at the time.	metaphorical	1
£45,000 was the asking price and I was not surprised that the sale, so to speak, hung fire.	metaphorical	1
However, in the spring of 1977 an offer was made, which my son accepted.	metaphorical	1
This sale later fell through and it was not until the following August that Wyvis Hall was finally sold to a Mr and Mrs Langan for the much improved figure of£51,995.	metaphorical	1
‘As far as I know, my son's personal acquaintance with Wyvis Hall was confined to my uncle's lifetime when 1, my wife and son and daughter frequently stayed with him.	metaphorical	1
After my uncle's death in April 1976 he visited Wyvis Hall on perhaps two, or at the most three, separate occasions simply for the purpose of looking it over and reaching a decision about the disposal of furniture and effects.	metaphorical	1
‘I suppose it is possible that squatters or other vagrants took possession of the house between the time of my uncle's death and the sale of the property.	metaphorical	1
Certainly my son never let it or allowed anyone to occupy it on either a temporary or permanent basis.	metaphorical	1
‘My son is at present on holiday in Tenerife with his wife and daughter.	metaphorical	1
I can not say precisely when I expect him to return, though I should suppose in about a week from now.’	metaphorical	1
It was all very small and quiet and low-key.	metaphorical	1
The snippet in Rufus's Monday morning newspaper measured just an inch in depth.	metaphorical	1
It answered the question he had asked himself and told him that the bones of a very young child had been found as well as those of a young woman.	metaphorical	1
This was not a shock.	metaphorical	1
How could it be otherwise, since this was Wyvis Hall and the pine wood and the animal cemetery?	metaphorical	1
To photograph the house for the news last night the cameraman must have stood just where he had stood himself, on the edge of the lawn with his back to the cedar tree.	metaphorical	1
A popular.	literal	0
mass-produced camera he had used, but quite a good one.	literal	0
One thing about Zosie's pilfering, she never stole rubbish.	metaphorical	1
He had taken a picture of her after that and one of the animal cemetery. 	metaphorical	1
‘Why is the grass always so short up here?’	metaphorical	1
Adam had asked.	literal	0
‘Rabbits, I expect.’	literal	0
‘Why ca n't bloody rabbits come and eat my lawns?’	metaphorical	1
Adam always referred to‘my lawns’,‘my house’,‘my furniture’.	metaphorical	1
It had got up Rufus's nose a bit, though Adam had a perfect right to do this.	metaphorical	1
It was his, all of it, and it went to his head rather.	metaphorical	1
Nineteen-year-olds seldom inherit country mansions, after all.	metaphorical	1
It must have been some time in August when I took those pictures, Rufus thought, and a couple of weeks later it was all over.	metaphorical	1
Coincidentally, as the community and their lives together broke up, so did the weather.	metaphorical	1
It was raining intermittently all the time they were in the cemetery, the pines bowing and shivering in the wind.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes they had had to stop and take shelter under the closely planted-trees.	metaphorical	1
If the weather had held and still been hot and dry would they have dug deeper?	metaphorical	1
Probably not.	literal	0
In spite of the rain, the earth was still as hard as iron.	metaphorical	1
A sheet of rain had come down then, a hard, gusty shower, while they were laying the squares of turf back in place, and Adam had said something about the rain making the grass grow quickly, the rain being on their side.	metaphorical	1
‘We should all go our separate ways as soon as we can,’ Rufus had said.	metaphorical	1
‘We should pack up now and go.’	literal	0
The spade and the fork they had hung up among the other tools in the stables.	literal	0
They had packed and Adam had locked up the house.	literal	0
At some point Rufus himself had taken the things out of the fridge and left the door open to defrost it.	metaphorical	1
Adam closed the front door and stood there for a moment as if he could not wrench himself away.	metaphorical	1
So much of its beauty had been stripped from it by the whipping winds.	metaphorical	1
And by the neglect of the long hot summer.	metaphorical	1
A sudden gust of rain dashed against the red bricks that were already stained in patches by water.	metaphorical	1
The house that when he first saw it had seemed to float on a raft of golden mist, now lay in a wilderness, amidst ragged grass and straggling bushes and trees dead from the heat.	metaphorical	1
Dirty grey clouds tumbled across the  sky above the slate roof, now the only thing that shone, glazed with rain.	metaphorical	1
But Rufus admitted to himself that the beauties of nature and architecture had never meant much to him.	metaphorical	1
It was the heat and sunshine and privacy he liked.	literal	0
And now he longed only to get away.	literal	0
They all got into Goblander and he drove away up the drift, Adam next to him, the others in the back.	metaphorical	1
The drift had become a tunnel of overgrowth that dripped water on to the roof of the van.	metaphorical	1
None of them allowed their eyes to turn towards the pine wood.	metaphorical	1
At the top they came out into uncompromising, bright grey light, the bleak, hedgeless lane, the flat meadows where here and there stunted trees squatted like old men in cloaks.	metaphorical	1
Adam's simile, not his, thought Rufus with a grimace.	metaphorical	1
No one asked where he was taking them.	literal	0
No one spoke.	literal	0
Adam had Hilbert's old golf-bag stuck between his legs and Rufus guessed the gun was inside it.	literal	0
They must have gone a good two miles before they met another car.	metaphorical	1
Rufus overtook a bus going to Colchester and dropped the two in the back so that they could catch it.	metaphorical	1
He took Adam on to Sudbury for him to catch a train there and at that point they parted.	metaphorical	1
Adam got down from Goblander and said,	literal	0
‘For ever and for ever, farewell, Rufus.’	literal	0
Which was probably a quotation from something, though Rufus did not know what and thought fastidiously that it was in bad taste, histrionic, though just like Adam.	metaphorical	1
‘Take care,’ said Rufus, and not looking back any more than he had done when they returned from the cemetery, drove off round the town he had got to know so well, over the Stour bridge, into Essex, heading for Halstead and Dunmow and Ongar and London.	metaphorical	1
He never had seen any of them again.	literal	0
There had been no need to pretend, to turn aside.	literal	0
Briefly, starting his fifth year in medical school something over thirteen months later, he had wondered if Shiva Manjusri would be one of the incoming freshmen.	metaphorical	1
But no, his intuition had been accurate.	metaphorical	1
At any rate Shiva's face was not among the several brown faces.	metaphorical	1
As for the others, avoiding them had presented no problems. 	metaphorical	1
Would they get in touch with him now?	literal	0
No contingency plans had been made for this eventuality.	metaphorical	1
So long as there was no hunt for a missing girl they had felt themselves reasonably safe.	metaphorical	1
Their minds had not reached out to the terror of what had in fact happened.	metaphorical	1
None of them had been the kind of people who could have imagined devotion to a pet animal or according to it funerary rites.	metaphorical	1
It was Shiva who had proposed the site.	literal	0
They had congratulated him on his ingenuity.	metaphorical	1
Ten years…	literal	0
An ovarian cyst, nothing to get upset about, Rufus told Ms Beauchamp.	metaphorical	1
She was thirty-two, an editor with a distinguished publishing house, married to an investigative journalist.	metaphorical	1
As yet they had no children, but she wanted four, she told Rufus.	metaphorical	1
‘No reason why you should n't.’	literal	0
He had another glance at her notes.	metaphorical	1
‘In fact, a peculiarity about this condition is that it seldom if ever occurs in a woman who's had a baby.’	metaphorical	1
‘My God,’ she said, putting her coat on,.	literal	0
'and there was 1, making my husband's life a misery, sure I'd got the dreaded C.’	metaphorical	1
They all thought they'd got the dreaded C, poor things.	metaphorical	1
You could n't blame them.	literal	0
Rufus took her£40 off her by the reception desk, having set in train the arrangements by which she would be admitted to a fashionable West End clinic, with Rufus, her surgery and her hospitalization ultimately paid for by some provident association to which she and her husband subscribed.	metaphorical	1
Rufus shook hands.	literal	0
He walked back to his consulting room, dying for a cigarette.	metaphorical	1
This was unlike him.	metaphorical	1
He could usually get through quite easily until after lunch.	metaphorical	1
He thought, I know what my idea of heaven would be, if by heaven we mean a place of bliss in which to pass eternity: a sanctuary where one might chain-smoke without impairment of breathing, destruction of the lungs or damage to the heart, light each fresh cigarette from the glowing butt of its predecessor, and drink ice-free but hundred-proof chilled vodka laced with two drops of angostura and a gill of newly opened Perrier endlessly, with increasing euphoria  until a peak of joy and ease was reached but without any sub-sequent nausea or pain or dehydration or oblivion…	metaphorical	1
Sitting alone, he lit his cigarette, the first of the day, and there came that faint swimming in the head, a tautening of the gut.	metaphorical	1
He closed his eyes.	literal	0
If it comes to light that I was in that house with Adam and the others, he thought with cold clarity, if someone tells the papers, or the police and thence the papers, that I was there during the summer of 1976, living there, it will be all up with me.	metaphorical	1
I will lose my practice and my reputation and everything that I have and can look forward to, if not my liberty.	metaphorical	1
And without the rest I sha n't care about my liberty.	metaphorical	1
It would be bad enough if I were a G P or an expert in some other branch of medicine, an orthopaedic surgeon, for instance, or an ear, nose and throat man, but I am a gynaecologist, and it is the bones of a young woman and a baby that have been found there…	metaphorical	1
What worried woman would come to me?	literal	0
What Mrs Strawson or Ms Beauchamp?	literal	0
What GP would send her to me?	literal	0
If I were innocent, thought Rufus, I know very well what I would do.	literal	0
I would pick up the phone and phone my solicitor and ask to come and see him and get his advice.	metaphorical	1
He might advise me to make a statement to the police which I should of course do under his guidance.	metaphorical	1
But I shall not do this because I am not innocent.	metaphorical	1
I shall sit here and wait and sweat it out and look the facts in the face, trying to anticipate the worst that can happen.	metaphorical	1
The wonderful thing about the human mind, Adam thought, is the way it copes when the worst happens.	metaphorical	1
Beyond that worst happening you think there can be nothing, the unimaginable has taken place, and on the other side is death, destruction, the end.	metaphorical	1
But the worst happens and you reel from it, you stagger, the shock is enormous, and then you begin to recover.	metaphorical	1
You rally, you stand up and face it.	metaphorical	1
You get used to it.	literal	0
An hour maybe and you are making contingency plans.	metaphorical	1
For what had happened was not the worst, you realized that.	metaphorical	1
The worst was yet to come, was perhaps always yet to come, never would actually come, because if it did you would know it, that would be reality, and there would be nothing then but to kill yourself.	metaphorical	1
Quickly.	literal	0
Now that he was able to, he assembled what had happened and laid the facts before himself.	metaphorical	1
They had dug up those bones at Wyvis Hall and had decided it was murder they were investigating.	metaphorical	1
Bones, skeletons, bodies, do not bury themselves.	literal	0
Those were the facts, as far as he knew them up to this moment.	metaphorical	1
He would know more, much more, in the days to come.	metaphorical	1
What was certain was that he could no longer use the escape key.	literal	0
It was defunct.	literal	0
The passages it cancelled had, in any case, as in certain programmes, not been lost but stored on some limbo disc from whence they must now be retrieved.	metaphorical	1
Adam sat in his parents' house, drinking tea.	literal	0
There must be a total retrieval now, the one good thing about which was that it might banish his dreams.	metaphorical	1
He was aware of a slight feeling of sickness and of cold, an absence of hunger, though he had been feeling quite hungry when he got off the plane.	metaphorical	1
Anne sat next to him on his mother's cretonne-covered settee and Abigail lay on a plaid rug on the floor, kicking with her legs and punching with her arms.	literal	0
His mother kept poking toys which she did not want at her.	literal	0
A passage from a novel by John O'Hara came back to Adam.	metaphorical	1
He had memorized it years  ago in the Ecalpemos epoch:‘The safest way to live is first, inherit money, second, be born without taste for liquor, third, have a legitimate job that keeps you busy, fourth, marry a wife who will cooperate in your sexual peculiarities, fifth, join some big church, sixth, do n't live too long.’	metaphorical	1
Apart from the last one which he had n't got to yet and the penultimate one which seemed to apply in America more than here(here he had joined the golf club) he had complied with all the rest.	metaphorical	1
Or his nature and luck had complied for him.	metaphorical	1
Nemesis had still come down like the wolf on the fold.	metaphorical	1
He had not wanted to come back here.	literal	0
But there had been no spirit in him, the shock of what his father told him had been too great.	metaphorical	1
‘Something that will interest you, Adam, something to make you sit up.	metaphorical	1
They've dug up a lot of human bones at my old uncle's house…‘	metaphorical	1
By the time he had rallied and got himself together and was thinking of things to say to the police it was too late and they were heading north.	metaphorical	1
Anne was furious.	literal	0
When Lewis said to come back with him and eat there Adam had got a kick on the ankle from Anne and another kick when he had n't replied.	metaphorical	1
He had turned on her and said with cold savagery,‘For fuck's sake, stop kicking me, will you?’	metaphorical	1
He expected his father to rise and say something about that being no way to speak to one's wife or not in front of the child, he was capable of that.	metaphorical	1
But he had said nothing, only looked subdued, and Adam realized why.	literal	0
His own terrible fear and anger had communicated itself to his father and shown him what the better part of valour was: keeping silent.	metaphorical	1
Having put the cat among the pigeons, made mischief in his special way, he was lying low now and waiting.	metaphorical	1
The old bastard.	metaphorical	1
Adam only wished Uncle Hilbert had left him Wyvis Hall and then there would have been no Ecalpemos, no Zosie, and no deaths.	metaphorical	1
And Adam could n't see he would have been much worse off.	metaphorical	1
He and Anne would be living in a house like this one, rather than that neo-Georgian palace.	metaphorical	1
Children, after all, he thought, looking at Abigail, were happy wherever they were, so long as they were loved… 	metaphorical	1
His parents had not asked him what sort of holiday he had had or how the flight had been.	metaphorical	1
The conversation was exclusively on the subject of the discovery at Wyvis Hall.	metaphorical	1
Adam did not know whether to be glad or sorry he had not obtained an English newspaper while away.	literal	0
If he had done the shock would have been less but on the other hand, his holiday would have been spoilt.	metaphorical	1
He would have liked very much to be alone.	literal	0
Of course he knew there was no possibility of this, now or when he returned home, for when you were married you never could be alone.	metaphorical	1
Presumably that was the point.	metaphorical	1
What was he going to tell Anne?	literal	0
How much was he going to tell her?	literal	0
He did n't know.	literal	0
None of it, if he could help it.	metaphorical	1
They sat at the table in the dining area to eat an absurdly early high tea.	metaphorical	1
Lewis asked him if he could remember the day when he heard he had inherited Wyvis Hall and had walked in here and astounded them with his news.	metaphorical	1
‘He had a beard then, Anne.’	literal	0
Lewis's subdued air had changed to one of high good humour.	metaphorical	1
‘You would n't have recognized him, he looked like John the Baptist.’	metaphorical	1
Adam could remember very well but he was n't going to say so.	metaphorical	1
‘What a funny thing,’ said Lewis.	metaphorical	1
‘We had ham salad that day too.	metaphorical	1
What a coincidence!	literal	0
Oh, yes, I've been meaning to ask you, who was it looked after Wyvis Hall while you were in Greece?’	metaphorical	1
Adam could eat nothing.	literal	0
The other time, he remembered, it was his father who had n't been able to eat.	literal	0
He did n't know what Lewis meant about someone looking after the house but no doubt he, Adam, had at the time concocted some tale to keep his father quiet, to keep him away even.	metaphorical	1
‘Someone from the village, you said,’ Lewis persisted.	literal	0
‘How can I remember that far back?’	metaphorical	1
‘The police will want to know.	literal	0
It may be of vital importance.’	metaphorical	1
‘Are n't you going to eat your meat, dear?’ said Beryl.	metaphorical	1
Abigail, who had been put upstairs in one of the bedrooms to sleep, set up a wailing sound.	metaphorical	1
Adam was on his feet at once. 	literal	0
‘I think we should go.’	literal	0
They had to wait until his father was ready.	literal	0
Adam would have preferred to phone for a hire car but Lewis would n't hear of it.	literal	0
Anne sat in the front in the passenger seat while Adam was in the back with Abigail.	metaphorical	1
If his father could have found out what flight they were coming on, the police certainly could.	metaphorical	1
It was possible they might be waiting for him.	literal	0
They would wish to interview every former owner or occupant of Wyvis Hall.	literal	0
He looked again at the newspaper account of the adjourned inquest that his father had saved for him.	metaphorical	1
It would be owners and occupants of Wyvis Hall between nine and twelve years before that they would wish to interview, and those were Great-Uncle Hilbert, who was dead, himself and Ivan Langan to whom he had sold the house.	metaphorical	1
As for other occupants, how would they know who else had lived there?	metaphorical	1
It was ironical that ten days before he had seen Shiva at Heathrow.	literal	0
The encounter he now saw as an omen, a shadow cast by a coming event.	metaphorical	1
What would that event be?	metaphorical	1
Adam did not want at this point to speculate, it made hi– feel sick.	metaphorical	1
He turned the newspaper over so that he could not see that headline and those paragraphs.	metaphorical	1
In high spirits, his father was talking about the immense advances made in forensic science in recent years.	metaphorical	1
As soon as they got home, Anne started getting Abigail to bed.	literal	0
Their cases humped upstairs and put into the bedroom, Adam looked Rufus Fletcher up in the phone book.	metaphorical	1
He was in there twice, at a Wimpole Street number and again at an address in Mill Hill: Rufus H. Fletcher, MB, MRCP.	metaphorical	1
All these years then, or for some of them, Rufus had been living three or four miles from him.	metaphorical	1
He could n't look Shiva up because he could n't remember his surname.	literal	0
Women marry and change their names, he thought, there was no point in pursuing that one.	metaphorical	1
Of course he could look up Robin Tatian but where, really, would that get him?	metaphorical	1
He was reaching-for the blue directory when Anne came back with Abigail in her arms, so Adam took her and carried her back to bed himself and tucked her in and kissed her.	metaphorical	1
She was almost asleep.	literal	0
He wondered if Rufus had children and if so did he worry about them coming to terrible harm the way  Adam worried?	metaphorical	1
Was his whole life affected by what had happened at Ecalpemos?	metaphorical	1
Adam might have escaped the file memories for years, suppressed them and jerked violently away from them, but he had never been able to pretend he was unscathed by those events.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes he felt that he was the person he was because of them and acted the way he did because of their effects.	metaphorical	1
He sat by Abigail's cot, not wanting to remember, but knowing that now he must.	literal	0
There was nothing in his house to remind him of Ecalpemos.	literal	0
Everything that was left, everything he and Rufus had n't sold, had gone to Ivan Langan with the house.	metaphorical	1
For a song, too, because he had not been able to bear the thought of going back, meeting a valuer, walking about the house, picking things off shelves and out of cupboards.	metaphorical	1
Only once had he returned after they all left and that had been bad enough, like a dream— no, like stepping into the set and scenario of some frightening film, a Hitchcock movie perhaps.	metaphorical	1
He asked the taxi he had taken to put him down at the top of the drift and he had walked to the house.	metaphorical	1
It was almost a year since he had been there and in that time nothing had been done, nothing had been touched.	metaphorical	1
From the pine wood he simply averted his eyes— till later.	metaphorical	1
The drift was thickly overgrown, a dank tunnel out of whose bushy sides the tendrils of brambles and briar roses caught at his clothes.	metaphorical	1
One of these whipped back at him and as he caught at it a thorn drove into the fleshy pad of his finger.	metaphorical	1
That thorn had been there, festering, for months.	metaphorical	1
A dull cool summer it had been, as different as could be from the year before.	metaphorical	1
No golden light bathed the red brick of the house.	metaphorical	1
It no longer looked mellow.	literal	0
Beautiful, yes, but severe somehow and, to Adam's heightened awareness, reproachful.	metaphorical	1
He found himself encouraging, fostering, the scenario illusion.	metaphorical	1
Only thus, only by pretending unreality, pretending this was a part he acted, could he go on, cross the wild, shaggy grass, go past the black-branched cedar tree, arrive at the porch set in its four Doric columns and insert his key in the lock.	metaphorical	1
Conclusion	literal	0
Task analysis has not and can not be reduced to a set of standardised procedures which the aspiring analyst could acquire in a formal training course.	metaphorical	1
The techniques just described are no more than guidelines in what remains the creative art of studying and describing what an experienced worker is doing or will be required to do.	metaphorical	1
The danger in being too rigid is that justice will not be done to the flexibility and complexity of human performance.	metaphorical	1
The danger of being too flexible is that the ergonomists will have an inadequate basis from which to design interfaces, training courses and other operator aids.	metaphorical	1
If a comprehensive task description can be completed then it is legitimate to enquire why the task can not be allocated to a technical device rather than a human being.	metaphorical	1
Yet without a reasonably comprehensive task description the total system performance may be unreliable or unpredictable.	metaphorical	1
There is a necessary compromise which can only be arrived at in the context of a particular system.	metaphorical	1
As mentioned earlier there are always the twin problems of how to get the information and how to present it.	metaphorical	1
It is sometimes easier to proceed on the basis of:‘If I were doing the job this is how I would do it’, but this can be delusory even for analysts who have past experience as operators.	metaphorical	1
For analysts who are designers creating a new task there may be no alternative, but any task description arrived at by this method should be checked against the behaviour of real operators as they gain experience.	metaphorical	1
A particular difficulty about task synthesis is that there is no easy way of confirming completeness.	metaphorical	1
A task description which is part of a design process should be fully— documented in terms of the origins of information, the assumptions made and the methods used.	metaphorical	1
The standard method of producing task descriptions is to write all the separate sub-tasks at various levels on cards and then assemble the cards in a network.	metaphorical	1
There is a temptation to make these final diagrams very large, but often it is more useful to separate into small units with cross-referencing.	metaphorical	1
The optimum size seems to be A3, this is easily copied and circulated but is large enough to contain considerable detail.	metaphorical	1
The procedure can be computerised, there are programmes available for the easy production, manipulation and storage of block diagrams with useful cross-referencing facilities.	metaphorical	1
There is an inherent difficulty in that often the main dividend from a task  analysis is from the act of obtaining it.	metaphorical	1
Those not involved find it difficult to gain very much from a presentation of a task description.	metaphorical	1
Like reference books, they have to be used rather than read.	literal	0
Task analysis can be very expensive in skilled manpower, but in looking at cost/value it is important to include in value the increase in mutual understanding which occurs when a multi-disciplinary team conducts the analysis.	metaphorical	1
If such a team is used the required man-hours can be optimised by using the Delphi method rather than a long series of group meetings.	metaphorical	1
Political, economic and social issues which arise in conducting Task Analyses are discussed in the context of Job Analysis(p. 148).	metaphorical	1
Application	metaphorical	1
Man-power planning	literal	0
The‘Human Resource’ concept of man-power as the central profit­ generating asset of any organisation has made some progress over the past twenty years.	metaphorical	1
There was particular interest around 1970 when companies were prosperous, stable and innovative(IPM, 1972, Patten, 1971).	metaphorical	1
The objective is to revise and almost reverse the traditional accountancy concept of man-power as a resource consuming factor requiring regular payments, overheads in the form of heated, lighted, equipped workspaces and so on.	metaphorical	1
From the narrow accountancy viewpoint, people are a cost and it is desirable to keep this cost as low as possible.	metaphorical	1
In these terms it is very difficult to justify, for example, sending a member of staff on a training course.	metaphorical	1
The training requires expenditure and so also does the replacement for the person away.	metaphorical	1
Where is the return?	metaphorical	1
The return is actually in the improved human resource but this is not readily measurable in terms which accountants use.	metaphorical	1
There have been two attempts to reduce human resources to this form of measurement(Giles and Robinson, 1972).	metaphorical	1
One is to acquire a human asset multiplier for each level of staff.	metaphorical	1
The multiplier for manual staff might be unity but it increases with staff level and becomes three or more for management.	metaphorical	1
The other is to add together all the personnel costs for each kind of worker from the original job advertisement through to the retirement or redundancy payments.	metaphorical	1
The first does attempt to obtain a value, the second remains essentially a cost and not a value.	metaphorical	1
It would be unduly optimistic to assume that management skills have risen to a level such that costs undertaken can be assumed to be equivalent to value.	metaphorical	1
A less direct measure which is applicable only to the most senior management is to observe the fall or rise of the share price when a particular executive leaves or joins a company.	metaphorical	1
This can be very high, for a large company a change in market value of millions of pounds is not unusual. 	metaphorical	1
The most serious consequence of the accountancy view of man-power is that high level policy decision-making does not give this factor sufficient weight.	metaphorical	1
For example, the main board of a company will have complete details of cost and values of physical resources such as buildings and equipment but relatively scanty data about the man-power which is their most important asset.	metaphorical	1
Indeed it will be described almost entirely as a liability because the costs will be known.	metaphorical	1
Similarly, broad factors such as the state of morale will again only be described by negative features such as absenteeism, stoppages, strikes, low quality output and so on.	metaphorical	1
It is obvious that company output and projects must reflect the man-power and its performance level, but, if this is acknowledged at all, it is only in brief verbal terms within, for example, the chairman's annual report.	metaphorical	1
The obsession, of current management, with measurement and the reduction of every variable to numbers for ease of computer manipulation has worsened the situation.	metaphorical	1
Unfortunately there is no easy remedy.	metaphorical	1
Human resources are too complex a variable to be easily susceptible to measurement beyond the level of counting heads and trades.	metaphorical	1
Key variables such as the quality of staff at any level and the current morale are only expressible in general verbal descriptive terms.	metaphorical	1
It is generally accepted(p. 145) that‘hygiene’ type variables such as pay and working conditions can, if they are inappropriately specified, depress morale and motivation but they will not in themselves result in very high levels of these parameters.	metaphorical	1
Morale and motivation are influenced more by conditions of work in the sense of work variety opportunities and attitudes of management.	metaphorical	1
These factors are worthy of emphasis because in practice they are still dealt with very badly in many organisations and yet it takes little trouble or expertise to make an enormous difference.	metaphorical	1
for example, very few senior managements take the trouble to keep workers fully informed about policies and likely changes.	metaphorical	1
The result is excessive reliance on rumour and continuous speculation which is not only time-consuming but is also highly deleterious in morale terms.	metaphorical	1
The two human factors which can be unambiguously measured are age and sex.	metaphorical	1
The age distribution of a work force is always an interesting and important source of information.	metaphorical	1
For most purposes a rectangular distribution is the most desirable because it provides the appropriate mix of youthful enthusiasm and ageing experience.	metaphorical	1
It also makes for regular changes as staff retire and are replaced.	metaphorical	1
Many distributions show a peak in a particular age group mainly associated with taking on a large number of young people when the organisation was started or reorganised, this is not desirable because it leads to excessive competition for promotion at particular stages.	metaphorical	1
These comments are obviously most relevant for work forces where there is little tendency to move  out, this is characteristic of a surprisingly large number of organisations in European countries and in Japan but much less so in the U.S.A.	metaphorical	1
Stable work forces have their advantages in terms of familiarity with the enterprise and its peculiar needs but they do result in problems if the market for the products is erratic or otherwise unpredictable.	metaphorical	1
This is particularly so in high technology e.g. design and construction of ships, aircraft, power stations and chemical plant, where the product unit is large and expensive and the variety of required expertise is extensive.	metaphorical	1
Some peaks of demand can be dealt with by using consultants, but they tend to be expensive and do not always fit well with ill-defined but important factors such as the favoured style of the organisation.	metaphorical	1
In well ordered systems it may be possible to calculate the length of in-house experience required to achieve the required level of expertise in particular topics and compare this with the lead time for particular product requirements.	metaphorical	1
Given time available to train new staff it is not necessary to keep more than a nucleus in that particular expertise.	metaphorical	1
On the other hand, if there is usually insufficient notice of need it may be necessary to keep staff who have periods with little to do between projects.	metaphorical	1
It is also desirable to have the possibility of shifting staff between design and operational duties.	metaphorical	1
This not only provides flexibility in the use of man-power, it also improves communication.	metaphorical	1
These real difficulties of man-power utilisation are such as to force many organisations to become larger and larger if they are to remain economic.	metaphorical	1
Size provides a cushion to the vicissitudes of markets but it creates other problems.	metaphorical	1
For example, difficulties of communications and in particular, how to inculcate the feeling within each individual that he and his performance are important to the organisation.	metaphorical	1
This is considered in more detail in Chapter 3.	metaphorical	1
Human resources should be fundamental to subjects such as ergonomics which are essentially people- centred but the concept remains procedurally undeveloped at any level from a continent through countries, regions and companies down to particular working systems.	metaphorical	1
This is one reason why policy makers never seem to take account fully of the people affected by their decisions.	metaphorical	1
The design of procedures	metaphorical	1
The increased importance of standardised informational support for both machines and operators has led to the concept of procedures as a separate design issue within a system(Fig. 1.30).	metaphorical	1
Much of this information can be incorporated in computer programs but there is also a need for extensive printed paper for the use of the operator.	metaphorical	1
This takes three main forms: checklists, routines and knowledge-texts.	metaphorical	1
The terminology in this field is not standardised.	metaphorical	1
Software might be  restricted, as in this book, to computer programs but it is sometimes used as the generic term to include all sources of information.	metaphorical	1
Procedures is sometimes used for what are here called routines and sometimes to indicate all the operator's information support except software.	metaphorical	1
The situation is further confused when some but not all the operator information support is itself computer- based.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes the term firm-ware is used.	literal	0
However whatever the terminology used there is a requirement for design effort.	metaphorical	1
The quality of procedures would be much improved if designers followed some simple guide-lines(Table 1.16).	metaphorical	1
Many documents are written on the implicit assumption that the reader is much like the writer in terms of expertise    and style of thinking.	metaphorical	1
Similarly it is assumed that the conditions under which the reading will take place are the same as those of writing which are usually a clean well-lit office.	metaphorical	1
They may have to be read in the open air, in rain and darkness or within a plant under oily, cramped, poorly lit conditions.	metaphorical	1
The user probably has limited expertise and he may be working under various stress conditions.	metaphorical	1
The material on which the information is printed, the typeface used, the sequence, the structure and the format generally should reflect the conditions of use,(Easterby and Zwaga, 1984).	metaphorical	1
All these things can be achieved if it is acknowledged that all procedures should a validated by users under the normal conditions of use.	metaphorical	1
Checklists	literal	0
Checklists are used in the pre-start mode, for routine maintenance and for fault-finding.	metaphorical	1
They normally take the form of a series of questions or statements which the operator uses to guide and structure his inspection of the hardware and other system components.	metaphorical	1
The sequence is dictated by the optimal order in which actions should be taken, for example in starting up an aircraft.	metaphorical	1
There are many situations when the order is of no great consequence, for example a safety audit of a new machine, and in this latter case some logical structure is needed.	metaphorical	1
As mentioned  above, the logic of the design may not be the optimal basis if the way the operator thinks and acts is different.	metaphorical	1
Baker(1984) suggests that four kinds of shortcoming emerge when checklists are validated in the real situation.	metaphorical	1
The operator may deviate from the listed procedure because it may require excessive moving about or because he is interrupted by the requirements of other tasks.	metaphorical	1
Systematic use of a checklist often reveals faults in work design such as inadequate access, visibility and labelling.	metaphorical	1
The checklist itself may be inconsistent, incomplete, imprecise or ambiguous.	literal	0
Finally the checklist may have reprographic limitations such as inadequate vertical or horizontal structure, poor typefaces and insufficient linking of requirements, descriptions, remarks and tick-off points.	metaphorical	1
The International Ergonomics Association developed a general ergonomics checklist which is reproduced in Edholm(1967).	metaphorical	1
There is a deceptive simplicity about such lists which requires extensive effort to ensure a comprehensive but coherent content.	metaphorical	1
The context is, of course, the context of ergonomics as conceived by the designers of the list.	metaphorical	1
Routines	literal	0
A routine is the most common form of instructional material.	metaphorical	1
The reader is required to follow a series of steps which might, for example, introduce a change in the performance of a complex system.	metaphorical	1
Normally routines are single chains of instructions although it is possible to have some conditional branching.	metaphorical	1
Each step should be simple and complete in itself— preferably with some indication that successful completion has been achieved, for example the appearance or the change of colour of a signal light, or the noise of a motor starting or a change of pressure which indicates that there has been a change in the flow of some material.	metaphorical	1
As mentioned earlier a routine can often be regarded as a written task description.	metaphorical	1
By definition and design intention routines are inflexible.	metaphorical	1
The user is intended to behave exactly according to their instruction.	literal	0
No great skill or intellectual effort is required, which is one way of saying that the human operator is being under-used, but the purpose of a routine is usually to avoid common human error such as omitting a step or reversing steps.	metaphorical	1
In general the value of formal routines is precisely that the operator, left to himself, will not normally function in such a systematic sequential manner.	metaphorical	1
Knowledge texts	literal	0
Knowledge is contained in documents which may vary from single sheet presentations to large manuals.	metaphorical	1
As instructional material it is indirect  in that the reader is not necessarily told what to do, as in a routine.	metaphorical	1
Rather he is informed about the situation and the purpose of informing him is to provide a knowledge base from which he can work out his own actions.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, the relevant action remains important and the knowledge provided should be carefully and stringently selected.	literal	0
It is too easy to follow the academic tradition and provide knowledge for its own sake.	metaphorical	1
The‘need to know’ criterion is crucial because unless it is applied, the operator can be overburdened with unnecessary material.	metaphorical	1
Correspondingly the material should be structured in terms of how it is most likely to be used.	metaphorical	1
In this context the operator requires a guide for action and not a scientific text-book.	metaphorical	1
It is invariably better to provide material diagrammatically, systematically or at least in well-structured short paragraphs rather than in flowing prose.	metaphorical	1
Consider for example how readily information about the relative position of streets is available from a map of a town centre rather than a verbal description of all the streets.	metaphorical	1
Such a map will enable the reader to work out for himself how to get from one location to another within the town.	literal	0
Note the enormous flexibility compared with a routine which would tell him only how to get from one particular point to another.	metaphorical	1
A second important difference is that if he misses his place in a routine he will be totally lost, whereas if he happens to go in the wrong direction while using a map he is still able to make whatever correction is necessary.	metaphorical	1
However the map does require more intellectual effort than does the routine not only in making decisions about how to proceed but also in filtering out the required information from the massive irrelevance(for a particular task) which is equally available.	metaphorical	1
Thus, one would expect the use of the maps to be slower than the use of routines with the human performance being more versatile but less predictable.	metaphorical	1
With two-dimensional representations such as maps it remains important to avoid too much homogeneity and provide substructure in the form of main roads and key buildings or other features such as rivers.	metaphorical	1
See, for example, Fig. 5.3	literal	0
Manuals which may contain maps, schematic diagrams and other materials warrant separate consideration.	metaphorical	1
The design of manuals	metaphorical	1
A manual is usually in the form of a book or booklet which is sent with the hardware from the maker to the customer.	metaphorical	1
It is part of the communication package from the designer to the user.	literal	0
Thus it is a particular form of job aid which provides the operator with information on a system and its performance.	metaphorical	1
The standard of manual design has traditionally been very low for several   reasons.	metaphorical	1
For this purpose, the designer is too familiar with the product and he rarely takes the trouble to find out what the user really needs to know.	metaphorical	1
Often the manual has to be provided hurriedly at the end of a project when the budget is running out, and it is regarded as a tiresome chore still required after the essential design work has been completed.	metaphorical	1
The problem is particularly acute for computers.	literal	0
Manuals for cars, machine tools and so on are poor but at least it is possible to observe the mechanisms and their functions.	metaphorical	1
Most computer operators do not know or wish to know about the mechanisms, and in any case these are not accessible to vision and manipulation.	metaphorical	1
The computer operator is entirely dependent on the manual, at least in the early stages of gaining familiarity with the system and its functions.	metaphorical	1
He is usually very badly served although the principles of manual design are well known.	metaphorical	1
For most systems the manual is best divided into parts as indicated in Table 1.17.	metaphorical	1
The first part should be a general introduction which orientates the readers towards the system, its purpose, its functional structure and mode of operation and its performance limits.	metaphorical	1
This should be followed by a separate section on how to set the system up in the first place and how to check that it is working properly.	metaphorical	1
If it is fairly small it may be necessary to describe how to unpack it, fix it into position, connect it to power supplies and start it up.	metaphorical	1
If it is large, the emphasis will be on the start up procedure.	metaphorical	1
The section describing the operation of the system should cover not only how the system operates but also how the user can operate it.	metaphorical	1
Extensive use of line drawings, schematic  diagrams, algorithmic lists is desirable, and where prose is used this also should be structured into short sentences with meaningful separation into paragraphs.	metaphorical	1
The maintenance section should indicate what, if anything, the operator is expected to do and the symptoms which indicate that more specialist maintenance skills are required.	metaphorical	1
Tables subdivided into Faults/Reasons/ Remedies can be extremely helpful.	metaphorical	1
Parts lists including description reference numbers and sometimes drawings are necessary if the user is expected to deal with his own replacements.	metaphorical	1
A standard fault is to assume that the reader is familiar with the jargon which the designer habitually uses.	metaphorical	1
A glossary of terms and acronyms used can be very helpful not only to the reader but also to the writer who is forced to consider carefully how he is using various technical terms.	metaphorical	1
Finally, all manuals should end with an index which supplements the table of contents at the beginning.  	metaphorical	1
The School Framework	metaphorical	1
A Model to Link Personality Characteristics to a Preference for Science	metaphorical	1
John Head	literal	0
Introduction	metaphorical	1
In recent years there has been a steady accumulation of evidence that personality and allied affective factors play a crucial role in determining subject choice and student success.	metaphorical	1
Unfortunately, this evidence has tended to be fragmentary, a collection of separate, discrete pieces of information lacking a synthesizing theory to provide cohesion and predictive power.	metaphorical	1
The few models which have been developed to date may have been correct as far as they go but are clearly incomplete.	metaphorical	1
For example Roe(1952), Eiduson(1962) and McClelland(1962) suggested that male scientists often experienced a lonely childhood, perhaps suffering social isolation through illness or family circumstances, so that they developed a strong interest in their surrounding material world and a below average interest in other people and relationships.	metaphorical	1
Maslow(1966) and Hudson(1966 and 1968) saw science as providing an emotionally undemanding activity appealing to boys moving from the calm of latency to the turbulence of adolescence.	metaphorical	1
Even if these descriptions are valid they still leave open a number of questions, particularly why the same mechanisms do not operate with girls.	metaphorical	1
Arising from the evidence in the literature and from our empirical studies at Chelsea College it is now possible to offer a model which is compatible with all the evidence and which also has considerable predictive potential. 	metaphorical	1
What we know about persons choosing science	metaphorical	1
The evidence for an association between personality characteristics and an interest in science has been more fully reviewed by Head(1979).	metaphorical	1
We need now only take note of the most salient features.	metaphorical	1
The most obvious one is that of sex differences.	metaphorical	1
The predominance of males, particularly in the physical sciences and engineering, throughout the Western world can no longer be satisfactorily attributed to cognitive differences, which are too small, nor to institutional factors.	metaphorical	1
Equal opportunity in education and employment has not made science any more popular with women.	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, the characteristics of those students who do opt for science show clear sex differences.	metaphorical	1
Male scientists, both science students and mature, professional scientists, tend to be emotionally reticent, disliking overt emotional expression in others and themselves, and depending upon their partners in personal relationships to take the emotional initiatives.	metaphorical	1
They will also tend to be authoritarian, conservative and controlled in their thinking.	metaphorical	1
These differences can be seen quite early on; we have found boys aged 14 years who were opting for science to be significantly more authoritarian than their peers.	metaphorical	1
Girls choosing science are not particularly emotionally reticent or rigid in their thinking, although they do seem to have low self-esteem in terms of being socially and sexually attractive.	metaphorical	1
We also know that at about the age of 13 a very high proportion of boys are attracted to science and scientific careers.	metaphorical	1
Thereafter, there is a steady decline of interest in science and this disillusionment extends right through the secondary-school years and into the undergraduate period.	metaphorical	1
In contrast, only a minority of girls express an interest in science at any age but there is no obvious swing from science in the middle and late teens.	metaphorical	1
Some further evidence has come from our use of sentence completion tests with secondary-school pupils as part of our research programme at Chelsea.	metaphorical	1
Analysis of these responses provides further information on sex differences and between those opting for different subjects.	metaphorical	1
For example, girls at the age of 12 and 14 years seem to take a more mature attitude to personal relationships, seeing their complexity and reciprocal nature, while boys are more exploitative.	metaphorical	1
In relation to the sentence stem‘A girl and her mother…’, girls often produce responses like‘often go through a bad patch for a year but once they learn to understand each other, become the best of friends’ or‘can help each other with their problems’.	metaphorical	1
Similar questions, when asked of boys, tend to produce banal responses or exploitative ones, for example the parent is seen as the source of money.	metaphorical	1
In contrast, boys seem to have a firmer self-identity and a clearer ambition showing more insight in response to sentence stems such as‘My main problem is…’ and‘He/she felt proud that…’.	metaphorical	1
Such findings give us some clues about the characteristics of boys and girls of these ages.	metaphorical	1
If we compare boys of 14 years of age who opt for science with other boys, we find that the former have very cut-and-dried views on many issues.	metaphorical	1
 For example, they take the view that‘criminals should be severely punished’ or that‘anyone who is unpopular deserves his fate’.	metaphorical	1
To the sentence stem‘When a child will not join in group activities…’, these boys gave responses like‘he is selfish’,‘he must be stupid’,‘he deserves to be unpopular’.	metaphorical	1
In contrast, other boys and most girls pondered the possible causes and ways of integrating the child into the group.	metaphorical	1
The science boys seemed to possess few doubts or uncertainties, they offered clear-cut answers.	metaphorical	1
It was this evidence which suggested the possible model for subject choice in terms of ego-identity achievement.	metaphorical	1
Ego-identity in adolescence	metaphorical	1
This model was originally postulated by Erikson(1965) and then developed by Marcia(1966 and 1976).	metaphorical	1
Erikson suggests that at different phases of life an individual faces a particular psycho-social problem which needs to be resolved before moving on to the next phase.	metaphorical	1
For adolescents the acquisition of a clear ego-identity is the crucial task.	metaphorical	1
At the beginning of adolescence, the individual is a within the family and the school.	metaphorical	1
By the end of adolescence he[ or she] needs to make choices about career, life-style, personal relationships and ideologies.	metaphorical	1
The ego-identity of that person is shaped by these choices.	metaphorical	1
Erikson does not suggest that the development of an ego-identity is a once-and-for-all issue.	literal	0
Some problems about identity arise with the young child in the context of home and school, and others occur in later life, for example on retirement.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, adolescence is the time when ego-identity development inevitably dominates the personal development of the individual for a while.	metaphorical	1
The adolescent does not, however, need to achieve a clear ego-identity on all topics at one time.	metaphorical	1
He[ or she] may have a clear identity in respect to his[ or her] career but still be unresolved in regard to personal relationships and ideology.	metaphorical	1
In this article we are concerned with ego-identity achievement in respect to career.	metaphorical	1
Marcia has put more detail onto the Erikson model and suggests that in going from the initial ego- diffusion condition to that of having achieved ego-identity, two processes are involved: crisis and commitment.	metaphorical	1
Crisis in this context describes a period of intensive self-examination in which one's beliefs and values are re-examined.	metaphorical	1
Commitment means that the individual has acquired clear and firm beliefs both about himself[ or herself] and the world.	metaphorical	1
Figure 16.1 indicates a number of possible routes to ego-identity achievements.	metaphorical	1
A person may undergo crisis and commitment simultaneously and progress by route A. An alternative is to undergo a period of considerable self-doubt and self-examination in which all one's beliefs tend to be very fluid, a period known as moratorium, before acquiring beliefs for oneself and ego-identity is achieved(route B).	metaphorical	1
A further possibility is that the individual may, at least for a time, hold onto beliefs and values taken without question from others, for example parents, teachers, peers.	metaphorical	1
This condition is known as   foreclosure.	metaphorical	1
Eventually these persons might have to face up to period of crisis, of self-examination, and so achieve ego-identity by route C. However, foreclosure does offer an escape route and an individual might postpone indefinitely any real self-examination by clinging rigidly to his[ or her] beliefs and values(route D).	metaphorical	1
Ego-identity and Choosing Science	literal	0
We can now make the link between this model of adolescent development and subject choice in schools.	metaphorical	1
For boys at the foreclosure stage, science is likely to be appealing.	metaphorical	1
The physical sciences in particular, offer a conventional career choice which is likely to win approval from parents, teachers and peers.	metaphorical	1
They will tend to regard the overt expression of emotions, including much such expression in the arts, as being soft and feminine.	metaphorical	1
Science, with its masculine image, makes little emotional demand on an individual and seems to offer clear, precise answers to problems.	metaphorical	1
Opting for science will permit and possibly reinforce emotional reticence.	metaphorical	1
For a girl at the foreclosure stage the situation is very different.	metaphorical	1
There is evidence that girls tend to be socialized into adult roles more through their potential of becoming a mother and housewife than through their career(Douvan and Adelson, 1966).	metaphorical	1
Furthermore, these girls will tend to go into a career with a feminine image, one which already attracts many girls.	metaphorical	1
 Consequently, very few girls at the foreclosure stage will enter science unless they receive considerable encouragement and a model to do so from their parents and their school.	metaphorical	1
Neither boys nor girls at the moratorium stage are likely to be attracted to the science that is usually presented in our schools.	metaphorical	1
They are at a stage when they are likely to be concerned with a variety of complex issues; the meaning of life, the existence of God, ideologies, their emerging sexuality, their future career and life-style— too often science is seen as being purely instrumental with nothing to contribute to these debates.	metaphorical	1
Science, somehow, seems to be scarcely relevant to the most important issues in our life.	metaphorical	1
A proportion of both boys and girls at ego-identity achievement stage will choose science.	metaphorical	1
In fact, most girls entering science are probably at this stage as they will need some self-examination and sense of commitment to make this unconventional choice.	metaphorical	1
However, only a minority of adolescents will have reached the ego-identity achievement stage at the age when most pupils have to make crucial decisions about subject choice at school.	metaphorical	1
This model seems to explain our observations.	metaphorical	1
A large number of boys, particularly at the foreclosure stage, are initially attracted to science but there is a drift away throughout later adolescence as they undergo some crisis.	metaphorical	1
The preponderance of boys at the foreclosure stage will yield the rigid, authoritarian attitudes often associated with scientists.	metaphorical	1
The few girls who enter science will not usually show these foreclosure characteristics.	metaphorical	1
Effects of Curriculum Changes	metaphorical	1
The real use of this model linking personality development to subject choice is that it allows us to make predictions about how pupils might react to changes in school science curriculum and school organization.	metaphorical	1
We can consider three possible changes:	metaphorical	1
1	literal	0
Delaying subject choice: Britain is unusual in asking pupils to make crucial choices about subject options in the 13–16 age range.	metaphorical	1
These decisions can only be reversed with great difficulty.	metaphorical	1
What effect would delaying the choice make?	metaphorical	1
In the development through the years of adolescence the number of foreclosure pupils will diminish, hence the recruitment of boys into science would be cut.	metaphorical	1
More boys and girls will have reached the ego-identity achievement stage and a proportion of these will go into science.	metaphorical	1
Overall there would be a reduction in the number of students choosing science, but those who do so choose will be more likely to stay happily in the subject and to possess more flexible minds.	metaphorical	1
The quantitative loss would be met by a qualitative improvement.	metaphorical	1
2	literal	0
Giving science a more feminine image: It is sometimes argued that science textbooks are sexist in showing illustrations of boys, rather than girls, doing practical work in the laboratory, and so forth.	metaphorical	1
What effect would a  deliberate attempt to change this image have?	metaphorical	1
It might make it easier for girls at the foreclosure stage to accept science so recruitment might increase.	metaphorical	1
Some of these girls might, however, drift away again when they reach their crisis period.	metaphorical	1
Unless the change in image was immense, boys would probably not be affected, science would still be an obvious, acceptable choice for a boy.	metaphorical	1
Overall there would be some increase in the recruitment of girls, but no qualitative improvement.	metaphorical	1
3	literal	0
Emphasizing the applications and relevance of science: To obtain a major qualitative improvement to recruitment in science with more girls and with students possessing imaginative, flexible minds it would be necessary to make science appealing to boys and girls at the moratorium stage.	metaphorical	1
In that event science must be seen to be relevant to the issues which concern them.	metaphorical	1
The probable implication is that science would need to be presented in the context of the needs of society and individuals.	metaphorical	1
Probably a case-study approach involving the application of science, and the interaction with other disciplines, would be needed.	metaphorical	1
Our knowledge about the girls' concern with personal relationships suggests that the introduction of some elements of the social sciences into the case studies might prove attractive.	metaphorical	1
Is it possible to change school science in this fashion and still preserve the essential character of science itself?	metaphorical	1
Clearly there would need to be some drastic pruning of content.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps science teachers should not attempt to cover their subjects so comprehensively.	metaphorical	1
A history teacher is content to cover the history of one country or continent over a few decades.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps we must make similar choices.	metaphorical	1
It is interesting to notice that the Association for Science Education(1979) policy statement in Britain and the proposals on school physics coming from the Institute for Science Education(IPN) in Kiel are advocating such changes.	metaphorical	1
The difference is that we are now offering a formal psychological model to suggest that if we want to reduce the current encapsulation of science, if we want to recruit a different sort of student, then certain curriculum changes are needed.  	metaphorical	1
Girl Friendly Science and the Girl Friendly School	literal	0
Judith Whyte	literal	0
Approximately three times as many boys as girls take O level physics and approximately four times as many take CSE physics.	metaphorical	1
Over 90 per cent of entries in all technical subjects are from boys.	metaphorical	1
This means that schoolgirls are ineligible for a wide range of courses in further and higher education and for entry to occupations requiring a scientific or technical base.	metaphorical	1
Female exclusion from science and technology, even if it is apparently by girls' own choice, also means that as citizens their ability to understand and control their environment is limited.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless, most schools consider they are already providing equal opportunities by neutral treatment of the two sexes(Bloomfield, 1984).	metaphorical	1
In effect, ignoring the effects of gender in this way merely reinforces stereotyping because it does nothing to challenge the definition of certain aspects of the curriculum as masculine or feminine.	metaphorical	1
Girls Into Science and Technology(GIST) was the first major schools-based project addressing problems of sex stereotyping at school, and was an example of‘action research’ in education; the project simultaneously took action to improve girls' achievement in science and technology and investigated the reasons for their under-achievement.	metaphorical	1
The project team collaborated with teachers in eight co-educational comprehensive schools in the Greater Manchester area to devise and implement intervention strategies designed to improve girls' attitudes to the physical sciences and technical subjects.	metaphorical	1
Two other schools were involved as controls where attitude testing but no interventions took place.[…]	metaphorical	1
The approach was collaborative: teachers were invited to work with the team as equal partners in the attempts both to investigate and find solutions to the GIST problem.	metaphorical	1
However, very few of the teachers even recognized the issue as one of professional concern at the start of the project, and most of the first  two years was spent in establishing the educational importance of the issue and working towards the development of feasible intervention strategies.	metaphorical	1
The project and its outcomes have been fully described elsewhere(Smail et al.,	metaphorical	1
1982; Kelly, Whyte and Smail, 1984; Whyte in press).	metaphorical	1
GIST had more success in altering children's attitudes than their subject choices, suggesting that it is easier to change attitudes and beliefs than actual behaviour.	metaphorical	1
Pupils in action schools became markedly less stereotyped than pupils in control schools.	metaphorical	1
They also had slightly more positive attitudes towards science and scientists and were less likely to define them as exclusively masculine.	metaphorical	1
Despite some evidence of change in teachers' attitudes and behaviour, they themselves were reluctant to admit that the project had influenced them.	metaphorical	1
According to an evaluation report this may reflect an unwillingness to admit that in the past schools have been sex biased(Payne, Cuff and Hustler, 1984).	metaphorical	1
The GIST hypothesis was that female under-achievement in science and technology is at least partly socially constructed by the school, an hypothesis based on research evidence as well as critical feminist analysis(see, for example, Kelly, 1981).	metaphorical	1
During the project there was a shift away from locating the issue as one of girls' motivation towards attempts to change the nature of school science.	metaphorical	1
One of the main gains from the GIST project has been the clarification of what is meant by a‘girl friendly’, science, that is a science which will appeal equally to the interests and concerns of girls as well as boys.[…]	metaphorical	1
Making Science More Girl Friendly	metaphorical	1
Several interventions were designed to make science more girl friendly.	metaphorical	1
Schools and teachers tried curriculum development to build on girls' science interests, changing patterns of classroom interaction, single sex groups and classes.	metaphorical	1
The largest scale intervention was the VISTA programme, which consisted of women scientists and technologists visiting schools to talk to children about an aspect of their jobs already being covered in the school science syllabus.	metaphorical	1
VISTA made science more girl friendly in two ways: both boys and girls were offered an attractive image of a competent woman scientist, and talks concentrated on social and industrial applications of science, an element too often missing from science at school.	metaphorical	1
One school was so impressed by the children's positive reactions that they completely revamped the science work in the first two years to include more social and human applications of science.	metaphorical	1
The survey of children's attitudes helped here: research such as Ormerod's(1971; Ormerod and Duckworth, 1975) had shown that girls were interested in the social implications of science, but did not tell teachers what the desirable teaching approach might be in practice.	metaphorical	1
Would science in the home be a starter?	metaphorical	1
A question from our survey asked children whether they would like to know more about how a vacuum cleaner works; hardly anyone did, and girls were even less curious than boys.	metaphorical	1
This told us that any simplistic assumptions about featuring‘female’ domestic interests in science would  probably meet with failure.	metaphorical	1
The rest of the questionnaire about science curiosity showed that all the children were enthusiastic about learning science, and that girls were keen to know more about nature, the environment and medical science.	metaphorical	1
Over 50 per cent, and in some cases over 60 per cent said they would like to learn about the human heart, germs and illnesses, how our muscles work, what food is good for you, life in the sea, what makes a rainbow appear and how a record is made.	metaphorical	1
It was helpful that these topics also interested boys.	metaphorical	1
At present the science curriculum is structured around physical science interests, on which boys are keener(how motor cars work, atoms and molecules); we were able to recommend that teaching build on the overlapping interests of the two sexes, because girls as well as boys want to know more about human biology and spectacular features of the environment(animals in the jungle, volcanoes and earthquakes, acids and chemicals).	metaphorical	1
The less immediately attractive parts of science could be approached through these interests, for instance teaching‘forces’ by beginning with the action of muscles in the human arm, and‘light’ via the dissection of a bull's eye.	metaphorical	1
When women scientists employ such approaches, and describe their own work, as happened during the VISTA programme, girls are receiving double encouragement.	metaphorical	1
These examples indicate some of the features of girl friendly science: it builds on girls' interests, not just boys'; it explicitly encourages girls to see themselves as potential scientists, and it includes some of the social and human implications and applications of science.	metaphorical	1
Other GIST Interventions	literal	0
All the GIST schools were mixed comprehensives, and at first teachers were most unwilling to separate boys and girls at all, on the grounds that it ran counter to their co-educational comprehensive philosophy.	metaphorical	1
Then certain teachers were particularly struck by the evidence of large differences in the interests and experience children brought with them to school.	metaphorical	1
Girls had far less‘tinkering’ experience than boys and the connection with their lesser interest in topics like‘how electricity is produced’ seemed obvious.	metaphorical	1
Several special science or craft clubs were organized in the lunch hour for girls only and in two schools teachers planned single-sex teaching.	metaphorical	1
As we shall see, it was in these two schools that the largest measurable changes of attitude and option choice occurred.	metaphorical	1
For a more girl friendly science, it seems vital that teachers should come to see that when all the masculine packaging, evident in textbooks and resources as well as teachers' and boys' behaviour in the classroom, is removed, girls can be very enthusiastic about science.[…]	metaphorical	1
Alison Kelly sees at least four distinct senses in which it can be argued that science is masculine.	metaphorical	1
First, the pupils, teachers and practitioners of science are overwhelmingly male in terms of numbers; second, school science is packaged and presented to appeal to boys, not girls; third, classroom behaviours and interaction operate to reconstruct science as a male activity, and  finally it has been suggested that‘scientific’ thinking embodies an intrinsically masculine world view.	metaphorical	1
The GIST interventions described above relate to three of these: VISTA women, albeit briefly and temporarily, redressed the numerical balance by offering female role models of practising scientists; VISTA and the curriculum development which followed involved a limited‘repackaging’ of science to remove its exclusively masculine appeal, and the single-sex classes and classroom observation showed how science comes to be defined as‘masculine’ in the mixed school.	metaphorical	1
The fourth point, the idea that science is intrinsically masculine, can be sustained only by clinging to an irredeemably narrow conception of science and scientific thinking.	metaphorical	1
The industrial and social impact of science on health, on people, on the environment, a focus on the beauty and complexity of the natural world, are notable omissions from the school science syllabus.	metaphorical	1
Girls are not uninterested in science, they are bored by the limited version of it they meet in school.	metaphorical	1
One of the purposes of an extended period of single-sex science teaching might be to let teachers see how girls approach scientific matters, and to discover, what may well be the case, that girls are just as capable of‘scientific thinking’ as boys.	metaphorical	1
Margaret Spear, in a different study from the one reported in this volume, found that for identical work boys were marked higher than girls for supposed understanding of principles, aptitude for science and O level suitability(Spear, 1984).	metaphorical	1
Attempting to integrate under fives	metaphorical	1
Policy in Islington, 1983–8	literal	0
Margaret Boushel, Clare Debenham, Lisa Dresner and Anna Gorbach	literal	0
During the 1980s Margaret Boushel, Claire Debenham, Lisa Dresner and Anna Gorbach worked in the London borough of Islington within social services for pre-school children.	metaphorical	1
This chapter is an account of the way they perceived attempts to develop integrated provision for under fives and the barriers in attitudes and systems which were encountered.	metaphorical	1
The first section provides an overview of provision and services in 1983.	metaphorical	1
The next section describes attempts to create a clear under-fives policy.	metaphorical	1
The third section looks at the faltering progress towards integrated services.	metaphorical	1
The fourth section examines the formidable barriers that were posed by reorganisation of social services, local authority cuts and the demise of the Inner London Education Authority.	metaphorical	1
The chapter concludes with a mixture of resignation and determination.	metaphorical	1
BACKGROUND: UNDER- FIVES SERVICES IN ISLINGTON, 1983	metaphorical	1
Islington is a multi-ethnic, inner city London borough with a child population of 29,000.	metaphorical	1
In 1982, 44 per cent of under fives in Islington had the use of an under-fives facility, 29 per cent on a full-time and 15 per cent on a part-time basis.	metaphorical	1
Between 1982 and 1988 provision gradually increased, so that by 1988 there were 12 children's day centres, about 70 playgroups and 350 assisted child-minding places funded partially or totally by the Social Services Department, and 1,075 full-time and 824 part-time places in nursery schools funded by the Inner London Education Authority.	metaphorical	1
The Beacon Nursery, a local Mencap project, offered care five days per week to children over one year of age categorised as having severe learning difficulties.	metaphorical	1
Unlike council day centres, playgroups or community nurseries, the Beacon Nursery was free.	metaphorical	1
Children were collected from home by special bus and places were available on demand.	metaphorical	1
The Beacon had been in existence for many years and in the past had catered for up to thirty children with a wide range of disabilities and needs.	metaphorical	1
By 1983 it had half that number on roll.	metaphorical	1
Since 1983 numbers at the Beacon continued to fall as it was increasingly seen as a resource for children with severe and multiple disabilities.	metaphorical	1
In addition the Elfreda Rathbone  organisation, a voluntary organisation helping people with learning disabilities, ran a free day nursery in the borough for a small number of children with learning difficulties.	metaphorical	1
Some integrated services emerged in the early 1980s— one playscheme was developed through a parent's initiative, and an integrated adventure playground was established by a voluntary organisation.	metaphorical	1
Workers from the integrated playscheme subsequently supported a local special school in integrating under fives into a playgroup.	metaphorical	1
In addition to its mainstream schools, the borough included five special schools providing primary and secondary education to children with special needs from Islington and neighbouring boroughs— one for children with moderate learning difficulties, one for children with severe learning difficulties, one for children with emotional and behavioural difficulties, one for autistic children, and one for children with physical disabilities.	metaphorical	1
In 1983 three of these offered nursery places to children from the age of 2.	metaphorical	1
The children using all of these services came from a wide range of ethnic backgrounds, though rarely was this actively and positively reflected in the type of care provided or the ethnic background of their carers.	metaphorical	1
Residential units	literal	0
By 1983 residential services were designed with‘care in the community’ in mind, but most were based in specialist settings.	metaphorical	1
For example, Field End House had been open for three years as a specialist unit for children with learning difficulties, and was designed to offer respite‘round the clock’ care.	metaphorical	1
Parents had fought for this as a local resource to prevent the need for children to be placed in long-stay placements far from home.	metaphorical	1
By 1988 Field End had been joined by another specialist children's respite care unit at Leigh Road.	metaphorical	1
The Social Services Department also provided thirteen short-term and long-term residential units for children in care(by 1988 their number had been reduced to eleven), none with wheelchair access and only one with any experience of caring for children with learning difficulties.	metaphorical	1
The Community Health Team	literal	0
The Community Health Team had major responsibility for assessing children and recommending provision.	metaphorical	1
It included physiotherapists, occupational and speech therapists, doctors, psychologists and a specialist health visitor.	literal	0
They were joined in the network by specialist teachers, funded by the ILEA and based in the special schools, who visited children at home before they were due to start school.	metaphorical	1
This group of people met on a regular basis to coordinate services and discuss professional issues.	metaphorical	1
Discussion of services to individual children also took place.	metaphorical	1
This included deciding between day care or school, and parents' attitudes  to different options.	metaphorical	1
Often a member of the group was delegated to advise parents on a course of action.	metaphorical	1
The Community Health Team aim was to ensure a place of treatment for children from the earliest possible age, to enable them to develop to their fullest potential.	metaphorical	1
They were, however, an all-White group, operating without directly involving parents and were generally committed to specialist care in the community.	metaphorical	1
They gave support to the Beacon and Elfreda Rathbone nurseries and most members saw these settings as the best places to‘treat’ children.	metaphorical	1
Because of their early contact with parents they often had considerable influence in steering parents towards specialist provision.	metaphorical	1
The Special Services Team	literal	0
In the early 1980s social workers were funded jointly by the ILEA and Islington Social Services Department to work with children attending two special schools and two specialist units for‘partially hearing’ children.	metaphorical	1
These social workers were based in the borough's Special Services Team.	metaphorical	1
They all worked with some under fives attending the schools they covered.	metaphorical	1
They were aware of a number of pre-school children who did not have adequate access to resources or support when parents and professionals were becoming aware of the possible extent and implications of the disability.	metaphorical	1
When a vacancy arose within this group of social workers in 1983 it was decided to appoint someone specialising in work with under fives with special needs.	metaphorical	1
This might have had the effect of drawing families into the specialist system at an earlier stage.	metaphorical	1
Instead, for a number of reasons, it proved to be a key step in the development of the debate about integration in Islington.	metaphorical	1
First, the post was not attached to any specialist institution.	metaphorical	1
There was an expectation but not a contractual obligation that the postholder would work closely with the Beacon Nursery.	metaphorical	1
Second, the worker had an alternative peer group of under-fives workers who were key figures in controlling access to all other under- fives facilities.	metaphorical	1
Third, the worker was committed to the idea that treatment of a medical or disabling condition should not take precedence over the child's social, emotional and cultural needs.	metaphorical	1
There was now a new worker in the network who also made an early relationship with families but who could present a broader choice of day care to parents.	metaphorical	1
ATTEMPTING AN INTEGRATION POLICY	literal	0
The Labour Council, elected in 1982, had as a stated policy aim that every child whose parents so wished was entitled to a pre-school place of some sort.	metaphorical	1
This led to the initiation of an under- fives review.	metaphorical	1
The review team, set up under the auspices of the Social Services Committee, included councillors, senior departmental management and representatives of the children's day centre organisers and under-fives social workers in its membership.	metaphorical	1
It proposed a network of  under- fives centres throughout the borough— an idea which the under- fives workers had been anxious to promote for some time.	metaphorical	1
Day care in each area would be organised and coordinated through the children's day centres which would also provide information, support and resources to parents.	metaphorical	1
The review had made no mention of children with special needs.	metaphorical	1
The specialist social worker and another under- fives worker with a personal interest in the issues undertook a supplementary review to examine resources for these children.	metaphorical	1
They interviewed parents, specialist professionals and mainstream day-care workers and they designed a questionnaire which was completed by workers in a large proportion of mainstream council services and voluntary organisations, as well as by some child-minders.	metaphorical	1
Broadly, the survey confirmed that parents of children with special needs had not been given a real choice of placement, and that they had to fight hard for mainstream provision if this was their choice.	metaphorical	1
Parents wanted to be part of the decision-making and did not feel that they were.	metaphorical	1
Many commented on lack of information about the range of facilities on offer.	metaphorical	1
One Afro-Caribbean woman described how she felt that she was never given a choice of provision for her son, and objected to being told he should be in a specialist nursery for his own good.	metaphorical	1
She fought hard to get him a part-time playgroup place in the group his older brother attended.	metaphorical	1
Because the group had known her and her children for some time they agreed to‘have a go’ and the placement went ahead.	metaphorical	1
She commented:	literal	0
I had to fight every step of the way for this.	metaphorical	1
No one told me about it, and no one wanted him to have it.	metaphorical	1
I knew it was right for him— this is where he learnt to join in and be like other children.	metaphorical	1
It does n't matter that he's not like them.	literal	0
I know what is right for my child, but I'm not supposed to say.	literal	0
Parents also wanted an increased availability of specialist‘therapy’ time, but wanted it to be used in a more flexible way.	metaphorical	1
Some parents were very worried that more integrated settings would lead to lack of attention for children with special needs.	metaphorical	1
Definitions of‘special needs’ varied widely in the questionnaire responses— some defining it as children with disabilities, some including children with behavioural and emotional problems and some including children whose first language was not English.	metaphorical	1
This made the survey difficult to interpret.	metaphorical	1
The findings were documented in a report A Place For All Our Children(CCUF 1983) and an analysis was prepared of the practical and bureaucratic problems in gaining an ordinary childcare place for a child with special needs, with suggestions for how these might be overcome.	metaphorical	1
These ideas were informed by a paper which had already been produced by an active member of the local Mencap group, who had previously tried to generate the debate within the Community Health Service through the Mencap committee. 	metaphorical	1
The conference:‘A place for all our children'	literal	0
As a result of this work the Coordinating Committee for Under Fives(CCUF), an umbrella organisation of statutory and voluntary sector groups and individuals providing a service to under fives, decided to organise a conference to look at the issues of integration of special needs children within mainstream provision.	metaphorical	1
Prior to the conference various groups met to produce short contributions to the debate.	metaphorical	1
These included parents, under- fives workers, specialist workers, children's day centre organisers and playgroups organisers.	metaphorical	1
Each of these groups came up with a list of proposals which were sent to everyone attending.	metaphorical	1
About 230 people attended the conference, held in April 1985.	metaphorical	1
Workshops facilitated by the speakers and the conference organising group examined integration policies, overcoming practical problems for children in integrated provision and available sources of information.	metaphorical	1
The conference made the following recommendations:	metaphorical	1
1	literal	0
For a formal, universal information system, covering local and specialist resources.	metaphorical	1
2	literal	0
For children's needs to be considered with parents and their wishes acknowledged and recognised.	metaphorical	1
3	literal	0
For employment of extra staff where needed, and employment of peripatetic special needs workers.	literal	0
4	literal	0
For availability of money for equipment, toys and adaptations.	literal	0
5	literal	0
For enhanced payments to child-minders caring for children with special needs.	metaphorical	1
6	literal	0
For priority status for children with special needs in order to facilitate access to ordinary provision.	metaphorical	1
7	literal	0
For training facilities for staff in ordinary provision, specialist provision and child-minders.	metaphorical	1
8	literal	0
For greater communication and sharing of resources between ordinary and specialist provision.	metaphorical	1
9	literal	0
For therapeutic and professional staff to reflect the cultural backgrounds of the children, and that for all children, including those with special needs, their day-care environment and activities to express a consciousness of the multicultural society in Islington.	metaphorical	1
It was made clear that all of the above areas needed funding from health, education and social services before they could be implemented.	metaphorical	1
Finally, it was felt that unless the attitudes of advisers and information-givers became more positive towards integration, none of the recommendations could be effective.	metaphorical	1
II THE FIRST CRITIQUE	literal	0
Unity had been easy during the Resistance, because relationships were almost always man-to-man.	literal	0
Over against the German army or the Vichy government, where social generality ruled, as it does in all machines of state, the Resistance offered the rare phenomenon of historical action which remained personal.	metaphorical	1
The psychological and moral elements of political action were almost the only ones to appear here, which is why intellectuals least inclined to politics were to be seen in the Resistance.	metaphorical	1
The Resistance was a unique experience for them, and they wanted to preserve its experience in the new French politics because this experience broke away from the famous dilemma of being and doing, which confronts all intellectuals in the face of action….	metaphorical	1
It is only too obvious that this balance between action and personal life was intimately bound up with the conditions of clandestine action and could not survive it.	metaphorical	1
And in this sense it must be said that the Resistance experience, by making us believe that politics is a relationship between man and man or between consciousnesses, fostered our illusions of 1939 and masked the truth of the incredible power of history which the Occupation taught us in another connection.	metaphorical	1
If by 1945 Merleau-ponty had here already indicated the historical basis for what was to become Sartre's project in the Critique, the theoretical problem that followed was how to unite orthodox Marxist concepts of economic determinism and historical necessity with the individualism of Sartre's earlier work, that is the existentialist notion of the authentic self and the possibility of choosing one's own freedom: how to relocate human practice within historical determinism, to reconcile the individual with the social, the idea of agency with that of necessity, or freedom with history?	metaphorical	1
For Marxist or Hegelian thought, such an age-old contradiction ought to be resolvable through the operations of dialectical logic.	metaphorical	1
Citing Marx's famous remark in  The Eighteenth Brumaire,‘Men make their own History… but under circumstances… given and transmitted from the past’, Sartre suggested that this implied‘the permanent and dialectical unity of freedom and necessity,(I, 35).	metaphorical	1
Accordingly, he attempted to shift Marxism away from orthodox theories of an absolute determinism towards the primacy of a concept of‘History’ which, while still a totality as it had been for Lukács, a process with a determinate meaning and end, could also include a concept of human agency and thus articulate the individual with the social, freedom with determinism.	metaphorical	1
Today, Sartre's voluntarism is to some extent returning to favour as the result of a desire to retrieve the categories of agency and the subject, which goes together with the wish to get out of the apparently totalizing systems of Adorno, Althusser or Foucault.	metaphorical	1
Sartre's stress on the role of the subject also finds approval because many of those no longer prepared to argue for a general theory of history as the progress of a single narrative of class- struggle, have begun to argue instead for a return of its correlative, the subject, almost as if it was the next best thing in the absence of history itself.	metaphorical	1
But it still leaves us with the crucial problem that Sartre had to solve, namely how to link human consciousness with the processes of history so that the former can be said to be the agent of the latter.	metaphorical	1
How could this take place?	metaphorical	1
As Sartre had put it in What is Literature?:	metaphorical	1
‘Never has homo faber better understood that he has made history and never has he felt so powerless before history’.	metaphorical	1
How can man make history if at the same time it is history which makes him?	metaphorical	1
Sartre considered that orthodox dialectical materialism takes the easy way out by merely eliminating the first in favour of the second, making man a passive product entirely determined by economic circumstances.	metaphorical	1
Unwilling to follow Merleau-Ponty by dropping the second in favour of the first, Sartre argued that it was possible for man to be both at once through the movement of praxis, that is intentional actions which produce material effects.	metaphorical	1
Its corollary, whereby praxis becomes determining history, he called the‘practico- inert’, by which he meant the material circumstances that have themselves been created by previous praxes and which form the conditions for new praxis.	metaphorical	1
The individual is thus both totalizer and totalized, deftly uniting freedom with necessity.	metaphorical	1
Though this neatly solves the problem of how man can make history while at the same time history makes him, it does not answer the larger question of how a multiplicity of the products of individual acts,‘totalizations’, can themselves be totalized into the overall totalization required by the logic of dialectical rationality— rather than being the arbitrary, blind and self-cancelling movements of, say, Hardy's immanent will.	metaphorical	1
Sartre's fundamental thesis, that‘History continually effects totalisations of totalisations’(I, 15), does not in itself answer what Ronald Aronson has rightly characterized as the question for Sartre:‘how do separate, antagonistic actions yield a  history; how do individual totalizations lead to Totalization(and also progress, the direction of history, its truth and its meaning)?’	metaphorical	1
For the whole basis of Sartre's argument is that the dialectic of history is not a metaphysical law,‘some powerful unitary force revealing itself behind History like the will of God’, but the continuously produced effect of individual conflicts; each action is in its turn subsumed as a part of the whole in an ever broader, developing totalization(I, 37).	metaphorical	1
What Sartre needs to demonstrate, therefore, is that if the law of the dialectic works from the individual level, overall it produces nothing less than the intelligibility or the meaning of History as such:	metaphorical	1
The dialectic is the law of totalization which creates several collectivities, several societies, and one history— realities, that is, which impose themselves on individuals; but at the same time it must be woven out of millions of individual actions.	metaphorical	1
We must show that it is possible for it to be both a resultant… and a totalizing force… how it can continually bring about the unity of dispersive profusion and integration.	metaphorical	1
(I, 36)	literal	0
But what produces the overall direction of History?	metaphorical	1
How does it‘continually bring about the unity of dispersive profusion and integration’?	literal	0
Sartre does not attempt to answer this question, shifting rather to the notion of a lack of self-consciousness.	metaphorical	1
The dialectic is the law that remains hidden.	metaphorical	1
At the moment,‘history is made without being known(l'histoire se fait sans se connâitre)’— history constitutes, we might say today, a political unconscious.	metaphorical	1
‘Marxism’, on the other hand, Sartre claims,‘is History itself becoming conscious of itself’(I, 40): as for Lukács, it is by becoming conscious of itself as the subject of history that the working class will understand history's meaning— and so recognize itself as the meaning of history.	metaphorical	1
While he suggests in apocalyptic tones in The Problem of Method that this process of self-consciousness is at last beginning to take place, and that civil, foreign and colonial wars are becoming apparent as different forms of a single class struggle, Sartre also admits that the divorce between theory and praxis which ensued under Stalinism has generally prevented any clear self-consciousness among the masses.	metaphorical	1
The‘detour, of Stalinism is thus formalized as Marxism's own descent into its unconscious, resulting in a dream-work of heterogeneous histories that have eluded systematization and subsumption into the single meaning of Marxism's own reading of history.	metaphorical	1
It is therefore, Sartre argues, our historical task to make it known, promoting not just the historical process as such, but also the general recognition whereby the plurality of the meanings of individual histories can be seen to combine to make one history, with one meaning— the‘Truth of humanity’(I, 822).	metaphorical	1
Sartre's account thus sets up the articulation of history, univocal meaning, and totality as the indissoluble set of elements required for the validation of Marxism, necessary in order to save it from its detour  from itself.	metaphorical	1
The problem, however, remains how such universals are produced from the multiplicity of initiating individual praxes.	metaphorical	1
If History is a history of conflict, how could it be both one and internally diversified without the inner moving principle of the dialectic?	metaphorical	1
How can History be a unity if it is also conflictual, if each action is aimed at destroying the other and results in a double negation in which the original aims of each action have been destroyed by the other?	metaphorical	1
If each action negates the aim of the other, where is the‘unity’ totalized in the conflict?	metaphorical	1
How does History constantly totalize itself?	literal	0
(I, 817— 18) Sartre arrives at what he calls‘the real problem of History’, that is how there can be totalization without a totalizer, only at the very end of Volume I. It is not until the next volume, however, that he intends to show how individual actions, separate multiplicities, make up‘one human history, with one truth and one intelligibility’(I, 69).	metaphorical	1
Throughout, Sartre has nevertheless taken it‘for granted that such a totalisation is constantly developing both as History and as historical Truth’(I, 822).	metaphorical	1
His History, therefore, is always in process: but its teleology of a final totalization always has to be assumed.	metaphorical	1
He thus asserts the Truth of History while constantly projecting forwards and deferring its proof.	metaphorical	1
But when the proof comes it also turns out to rest on the assumption that it is already true.	metaphorical	1
III THE SECOND CRITIQUE:	literal	0
‘We are trying to establish the Truth of History'	literal	0
Sartre produces a persuasive formulation of the relation of the individual to the determining historical circumstance through his concepts of praxis and the practico- inert; it is also obvious to him how the larger question of History ought to be solved.	metaphorical	1
He asserts it often enough:‘History continually effects totalisations of totalisations,(I, 15).	literal	0
But in Volume I of the Critique, as we have seen, he continually defers the demonstration of his proof.	metaphorical	1
For the‘dogmatic dialectic’, as he describes dialectical materialism, the whole question naturally poses no problem, for each person or group simply constitutes a partial moment of an already operative movement of totalization that produces them and then goes beyond them.	metaphorical	1
But Sartre's dispensing with all historicist schemas creates the problem of how, between two autonomous and contradictory totalizations, there could be‘one dialectical intelligibility of the ongoing process’(II, 13).	metaphorical	1
He attempts to solve this through matching his account of contradiction with a new concept derived from the conjunction of work and labour:‘anti-labour’(anti-travail), a category of negation.	metaphorical	1
The products of a conflict, as well as its residues, may seem incomprehensible insofar as they differ from the original intentions of any of the combatants.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless they constitute the basis and conditions for further actions and history.	literal	0
Dialectical reason encounters such products as undecidables: 	metaphorical	1
aporias— because they seem to be at once the results of a communal enterprise while at the same time bearing witness to the fact that this enterprise never existed except as the inhuman reverse side of two opposed actions in which each aims to destroy the other.	metaphorical	1
In the dialectical perspective, we encounter these objects as productions which are human and provided with a future… thus they seem by themselves to be totalizations in process.	metaphorical	1
(II, 20)	literal	0
This means that first, they lead to results, and second, that the internal structure of social objects contains‘the double negation of themselves and of each constituent part by the other’(II, 22).	metaphorical	1
There is, therefore, before any understanding of historic agents and movements, a certain aporia in all social ensembles: from afar they may appear whole, but close to, they can be seen as riddled with holes.	metaphorical	1
This increasingly comes to resemble nothing so much as Sartre's own account of History.	metaphorical	1
In the context of the negativity of this formulation, Sartre is obliged to pose once again the problem of whether there can be a totalization, without any independent totalizer or totalizing force such as the dialectic, or whether the structure of negation that he has described means that, as for Adorno or Bakhtin, history does not develop positively but, rather, negatively, and is therefore instead detotalizing:	metaphorical	1
Marxism is rigorously true if History is totalization; it is not so any more if human history decomposes into a plurality of particular histories, or if, in any case, within the relationship of immanence that characterizes struggle, the negation of each adversary by the other is on principle detotalizing.	metaphorical	1
Certainly, we have neither the design nor the actual possibility of showing here the full truth of dialectical materialism…	metaphorical	1
Our goal is solely to establish whether, in a practical ensemble torn apart by antagonism(whether there are multiple conflicts or whether they are reduced to one) the breaks themselves are totalizing and carried along by the totalizing movement of the ensemble.	metaphorical	1
(II, 25)	literal	0
At this point Sartre confronts the possibility that the whole project of the Critique, stated so confidently on its very first page—‘it must be proved that a negation of a negation can be an affirmation’(I, 15)— may break down.	metaphorical	1
perhaps the Truth of History can not be proved; its direction can not be discerned.	metaphorical	1
Sartre's reaction to the threat that the negation of a negation may produce a detotalizing effect is to introduce a new category, a unifying force of a‘singularization’ which incarnates the universal:‘If totalization really is an ongoing process’, he writes,‘then it operates everywhere.	metaphorical	1
That means both that there is a dialectical meaning of the practical ensemble… and that each singular event totalizes in itself the practical ensemble in the infinite richness of its singularity’(II, 26).	metaphorical	1
Unlike Lukács' insignificant event from which the  universal is precariously drawn out through the narrative, Sartre's singularity works synecdochally in a conventional antinomy with the universal, the relation between the two structured according to the familiar nineteenth-century model of organic growth or process in which each singular event makes up the whole while, as he puts it,‘the whole is entirely present in the part as its present meaning and as its destiny’.	metaphorical	1
Sartre's‘singular universal’, therefore, begs the question, for it is predicated on the assumption that, if there is not a totality as such, then there already is an overall totalization:‘If totalization really is an ongoing process…’.	metaphorical	1
That developing process is itself totalized through Sartre's assertion that each totalization is the totalization of all struggles, as it must be if the singular is to incarnate the universal.	metaphorical	1
The concept of the singular universal thus facilitates a circularity in the argument whereby Sartre can avoid the question which he began by posing.	metaphorical	1
So the singular universal presumes the totalization he ca n't(yet) prove.	metaphorical	1
This strategy marks a structure of repetition in Sartre's text: each time he poses the question of how there can be totalization of History without a totalizer, he retreats to a more limited example whose unity is already evident, but which in the end only brings him back to the original question again.	metaphorical	1
In this case Sartre demonstrates how the singular universal works, by appealing to the concrete example of a boxing match— a random exemplification that just happens to reproduce the single adversaries of the master/slave dialectic.	metaphorical	1
Its totalization takes place through its incarnation, as part of the totality of boxing, in the overall framework within which each individual fight occurs.	metaphorical	1
Each boxing match, Sartre claims, must be both a unique event and also in some sense the incarnation of all boxing, whose rules and conventions it follows, and whose past and future history it sets itself against.	metaphorical	1
But it is also apparent that that totality is not completely known, nor is its future shape even presumed.	metaphorical	1
By totalization, therefore, Sartre does not here mean anything like a predetermined end or final closure of a totality but rather a process of mediation among the parts, where each is determined by the other.	metaphorical	1
No one can predict the future of boxing, either at the level of particular victories or defeats, in effect a structure of repetition, nor at the more general level of possible modifications or developments of the sport.	metaphorical	1
Yet each individual bout articulates itself within the framework of the history of boxing, known and unknown.	metaphorical	1
This allows Sartre to include chance and contingency in his scheme.	metaphorical	1
Since it can not be known as a concept that will realize itself in the future, Sartre argues instead that the totality only produces itself in the moment:‘The incarnation as such is at once unrealizable except as totalization of everything and irreducible to a pure abstract unity of that which it totalizes’(II, 58).	metaphorical	1
The universal, the totality, can only be known through the singular.	metaphorical	1
But its future direction remains unknown and indeterminate.	metaphorical	1
At the same time Sartre makes a larger, though less persuasive claim that  the boxing-match also works synecdochally and re-exteriorizes a more fundamental violence, namely the interiorized condition of scarcity that he considers to be the basis of conflict in general.	metaphorical	1
The boxing match‘is the public incarnation of all conflict’(II, 32), totalizing in its own struggle the whole of‘contemporary irreducibilities and fissures’(II, 26):	metaphorical	1
thus one can and must say… that each fight is the singularisation of all the circumstances of the social whole in movement and that by this singularisation, it incarnates the enveloping totalization which the historical process is.	metaphorical	1
(II, 58)	literal	0
But then he adds,‘I have said and I repeat that we have not yet proved that this enveloping totalization exists’.	metaphorical	1
So, although it is possible to conceive of any event as an incarnation of the totality, insofar as it must itself make up a part of that totality in its determination, unlike the case of the boxing match, where we can define the overall entity‘boxing’, it still remains unproven that an overall entity,‘History’, can be said to exist at all.	metaphorical	1
For all his use of the model of the boxing match, Sartre has really got no further with the fundamental question of how there can be totalization without a totalizer.	metaphorical	1
It is simple enough for him to show that a boxing match takes place within a general totality of‘boxing’, which is itself only ever present in any individual incarnation, for as a game each match is both an individual bout and something conducted according to general rules and a specific social tradition.	metaphorical	1
But what about those conflicts that do not take place within such a constituted social system, such as conflictual bourgeois societies which can not be said to be unified, except, as Sartre suggests dismissively, by appeal to a lost paradise before the class struggle?	metaphorical	1
Such societies make the conflicts of history irreducible to Sartre's logic unless, like the boxing match, they can be shown to take part in a larger totalizable category.	metaphorical	1
However, when he poses the question of whether his method could work as well for the class struggle as for the boxing match, Sartre admits that he finds it impossible to answer and returns instead to the much easier case of sub-groups.	metaphorical	1
Once again he backtracks and assumes a larger unity in which conflict takes place.	metaphorical	1
The major question thus always remains unanswered in the Critique: every time that Sartre announces that he is about to proceed with the fundamental problem of how History can be a totalization without a totalizer, he turns back to a previous, more easily intelligible stage on the way.	metaphorical	1
His difficulty is accompanied by a no doubt symptomatic increasing distrust of universals so that, in championing specificities against them, he seems to give up the attempt to validate the universals— History as Totalization— that originally formed the object of his project.	metaphorical	1
At this point a further contradiction in Sartre's whole enterprise begins to open up: for someone so deeply distrustful of universals it seems curious that he has involved himself so emphatically with the notions of totality, History, and  the dialectic.	metaphorical	1
As Sartre insists more and more upon the virtues of specificity(II, 200— 05), such is his distaste for Marxist or any other universalizing categories that he refuses even to countenance them, attempting to replace concepts with specificities, universals with singulars.	metaphorical	1
His scepticism goes to the extent of even denying the existence of‘society’ or‘the nation’ as such(II, 24, 61)— the very totalities which his own general argument for totalization requires.	metaphorical	1
Here certain similarities with later‘post-Marxist’ theorists such as Foucault or Lyotard, begin to become apparent.	metaphorical	1
But if Sartre anticipates such later thinkers we should not assume too quickly that they have simply taken his insights further.	metaphorical	1
For Sartre's singular universal could never be expected to solve the formal theoretical problem of how individual existential existence can be related to History insofar as it simply renames, in one oxymoronic category, the original antithetical terms.	metaphorical	1
Without an adequate theory of their articulation, they simply begin to separate again.	metaphorical	1
(d) Warfare and crusades	literal	0
The poet Marbod of Rennes celebrated(in Latin) the vengeance which would befall a wicked castellan and his troops: 	metaphorical	1
The poem highlights two important twelfth-century developments: the use of force in punishing aristocratic crime(the fruit of princely peace-keeping), and the increasing significance of siege-engines in warfare.	metaphorical	1
Intellectuals claimed a formative influence in the second too: John of Marmoutier declared that monks from his own monastery had read Vegetius' De Re Militari to Geoffrey le Bel when he was investing the castle of a rebellious castellan, and ascribed  his success to their advice on firebombs.	metaphorical	1
But common sense may have been more important than learning in perceiving the vulnerability of most castles to— battering-rams and catapults; for even in 1100 they were, as a rule, primitive structures.	metaphorical	1
Siege-engines demanded on the one hand skilled operators, and on the other a plentiful supply of unskilled labourers to move the necessary materials.	metaphorical	1
This effectively restricted their use to the wealthy and to those whose claim to assistance under the ban was incontrovertible.	metaphorical	1
Equally, the improvements in fortification needed to withstand their effects— thick stone walls, inner as well as outer defences— required incomes greater than those of simple lords.	metaphorical	1
The net effect was that, given dedication, princes— Louis VI, Geoffrey le Bel, Alphonse-Jourdain— could subdue rebellious castellans within their own demesnes, and could build castles of their own which were impregnable to all but lengthy and sustained attack.	metaphorical	1
Henry II's castle at Chinon, where the treasury of Anjou was situated, was the model for its generation, with its halls, upper chambers, tower, and curtain walling, set on a high point above a strategic crossing of the Loire.	metaphorical	1
It could be copied only either by those of nearly equal wealth or by those who could concentrate their resources chiefly on defence— princes, great bishops or, in the south especially, towns.	metaphorical	1
All others became vulnerable.	literal	0
John of Salisbury's comment that not only the towns but also the fortresses of Gaul feared Henry I of England was revealing of the new situation.	metaphorical	1
Similarly, campaigning in the field imposed an increasing financial burden.	metaphorical	1
The treaty between Robert II of Flanders and Henry I of England, renewed by their successors, stipulated that each knight supplied to the English king should bring three horses with him— this at a time when a horse represented a major investment.	metaphorical	1
Then knightly armour grew more elaborate and costly throughout the century.	metaphorical	1
And though some knights might be supplied free by feudal service, household ones had to be maintained by their lords, mercenary ones needed pay, and those with money-fiefs constituted a regular charge on the treasury.	metaphorical	1
Besides, away from their home base, knights were useless on their  own.	metaphorical	1
In open battle and in the plundering expeditions that constituted the normal form of aggressive warfare, they needed the backing of archers, both mounted and on foot, and of numerous infantrymen.	metaphorical	1
The usual source of supply was town militias— Suger mentions those of Rheims, Châlons, Laon, Soissons, Orléans, Etampes, and Paris in the royal army of 1124.	metaphorical	1
But they might have to be supplemented by mercenaries from Flanders and the Low Countries, where the rapidly expanding population forced large numbers of young men into military careers.	metaphorical	1
In the eyes of the faithful, these‘Brabanters’, with their freebooting and lack of discipline after the end of campaigns, were as dangerous as heretics; in 1171 Frederick Barbarossa and Louis VII agreed to expel them from their lands.	metaphorical	1
Their value in battle, as shields behind which the knights could shelter before they launched their charge, ensured their continued employment by those who could afford them— notably Henry II of England.	metaphorical	1
But the hatred they aroused meant that they were liable to be brutally slaughtered if captured afterwards.	metaphorical	1
Inevitably, therefore, war on the grand scale as fought by princes bore little resemblance in practice to the feuds of lesser men.	metaphorical	1
The divergence was sharpened by the application of a theoretical distinction, the fruit of Augustinian theology, amplified as the century went on by canon and Roman law reference; princes pronounced their campaigns just wars(fought against aggressors with the aim of re-establishing peace) or public wars(declared by a competent authority in the public interest), while they condemned the wars of lesser men as infractions of the peace.	metaphorical	1
Geoffrey Martel had perceived the propaganda potential of public war as early as the mid eleventh century; later it enabled Henry the Liberal of Champagne to claim the military service of all lords within his county, a reapplication of the Carolingian ban.	metaphorical	1
So it could be a powerful weapon.	metaphorical	1
Yet the logic of the definition suggested that it would benefit especially kings, whose competence to declare war could not be impugned: thus Thibaud of Blois failed to persuade the monks of Marmoutier that they owed him service when he fought against Louis VI; they claimed discretion in the matter;  and in 1184, the mighty Philip of Alsace hesitated to commit to battle the army he had summoned against Philip Augustus, through fear that its ranks might melt away.	metaphorical	1
The contrast with the united front Louis VI and his troops presented to the emperor Henry V in 1124 was marked.	metaphorical	1
A royal banner now bestowed respectability on a cause; kings' wars were assumed to be for the sake of peace, even when cripplingly expensive and increasingly savage.	metaphorical	1
This goes some way to explaining why the complicated campaigns within Toulouse in the second half of the century were largely fought out under the banners of the Angevin, Aragonese, and French kings; and why the revolts of Henry II's sons had widespread ramifications.	metaphorical	1
The twelfth century was characterized, therefore, by fewer but more protracted wars, which smouldered for long periods between short, sharp bouts of conflict, like the war that covered must of the reigns of Henry I of England and Louis VI of France, the one inaugurated by the great rebellion of 1173, which outlived both Louis VII and Henry II, or that against Catalan claims in the south.	metaphorical	1
Into these large numbers of local conflicts were subsumed.	metaphorical	1
The pattern caused problems, in that the circumstances which might trigger off renewed fighting were unpredictable; yet the moment an opportunity offered, princes had to be prepared for invading their enemies; there was no time for lengthy preparation.	metaphorical	1
The usual tactic was to march troops across the enemy's territory, plundering and looting; to take fortified places if the task was easy; to obtain allies among the lords of the locality; and to retreat without fighting a battle if at all possible— in effect an application to a wider canvas of the some technique of warfare which had earlier made castellans formidable in the immediate environs of their castles.	metaphorical	1
It necessitated the rapid mobilization of auxiliaries to join a core of highly-trained troops kept constantly, at the ready— the princes' military households, which became the linch pin of the system.	metaphorical	1
John of Marmoutier's life of Geoffrey le Bel offers a glimpse of how strong bonds were created between the prince and his followers within the household, and how a high level of training was maintained at all times.	metaphorical	1
Geoffrey was brought up  from infancy with the sons of neighbouring Angevin lords, on whose companionship he relied.	metaphorical	1
When it came time for him to be knighted by Henry I in Rouen, he set off for Normandy with a crowd of these young men about him.	metaphorical	1
In Rouen, the occasion was celebrated with pomp, elaborate dress, and a great feast, and then the youths all demonstrated their military skill at a grand tournament, at which Geoffrey naturally won the highest honours.	metaphorical	1
It was within this kind of environment that chivalry flourished, that young men learned to identify, their vassalage towards their lord as a symbol of their honour, that they debated the relative merits of Roland's and Oliver's way of displaying loyalty; and that they learned the finer points of jousting.	metaphorical	1
Tournaments were disapproved of by ecclesiastics, for they could be both bloody and dangerous.	literal	0
Yet they supplied real needs:.	literal	0
that of an instruction in the martial arts compatible with the maintenance of a prince's peace; that of an outlet for competitive instincts within the claustrophobic confines of a court; and that of display to maintain princely social status.	metaphorical	1
So they flourished everywhere.	metaphorical	1
They offered opportunities for men of skill to acquire great position in the world— Arnoul of Ardres caught the eye of Countess Ida of Boulogne through his exploits; and they also conferred lustre on the great— Geoffrey le Bel and Philip of Alsace were throughout France for their distinguished performances in these show battles.	metaphorical	1
All this formed a background to the first century of crusading; and it goes some way to explaining the more secular aspects of the magnetism which drew French knights to take up the cross in their thousands.	metaphorical	1
Urban II, launching the First Crusade at Clermont in 1095, presented it as a natural evolution of the peace movement: warriors were to forget their petty feuds and squabbles in a campaign to promote the interests of Holy Church.	metaphorical	1
The war, declared by one whose moral authority was unimpeachable, was to free the Eastern churches, to end Muslim guardianship of the holy places, to restore Jerusalem to its proper state.	metaphorical	1
As princes saw it, it was a just war in the fullest sense of the term; those who were slaughtered in its battles were regarded as among the martyrs of the church.	metaphorical	1
When Raymond of Toulouse,  Robert II of Flanders, Robert Curthose, Stephen of Blois, and Hugh of Vermandois responded to the call, past and present members of their military households fell almost automatically into rank behind them, to test themselves against terrible dangers, but also to enjoy the companionship in arms, the adventure, the deeds of daring which were the stuff of the chansons de geste.	metaphorical	1
That they shared, along with all other participants in the crusade, a fervent devotion, a conviction that their sins would be forgiven, is certain.	metaphorical	1
Yet for them crusading necessitated no large leap of the imagination, no millenarian vision; it was simply a challenging and a deserving extension of their everyday activities.	metaphorical	1
In French eyes, the hero of the First Crusade was Robert II of Flanders.	metaphorical	1
While Raymond of Toulouse remained in Outremer, Stephen and Hugh disgraced themselves in escaping from the siege of Antioch, and Robert Curthose, no matter how gallant, at least in his lifetime failed to impress, Robert II's prestige soared to the skies.	metaphorical	1
He became Robert of Jerusalem to his contemporaries; his deeds were recorded in the Song of Antioch; his pious bravery totally expunged the memory of Robert the Frisian's usurpation; and after his death his son Baldwin VII harped on his father's achievement to justify his substantial use of coercion against the enemies of the church.	metaphorical	1
Outside Flanders, Robert's sister's marriage to Roger of Sicily was a mark of his new position in the world; like Louis VI's sister's marriage to Bohemond of Antioch, it stretched French kinship connections into the new Norman colonies, ensuring that travellers from the homeland would find a welcome in those distant parts.	metaphorical	1
Robert's example was a potent one.	literal	0
After the next change in dynasty, Thierry and Philip of Alsace strengthened their shaky claim to the comital position by attaining for themselves the prestige attached to being the outstanding crusaders of their generation.	metaphorical	1
Thierry's remote connection with the family of Godfrey de Bouillon, along with his marriage with Sybilla of Anjou, Fulk V's daughter, gave him some claim to the throne of Jerusalem; as a consequence, the aristocracy of Outremer viewed him and Philip with mixed feelings, expecting much of them, yet fearing their ambitions.	metaphorical	1
In the end, it was not in Outremer but in the newly conquered  Byzantine empire that the Flemish crusading achievement was crowned with the elevation of Count Baldwin IX to the imperial throne in 1204.	metaphorical	1
But in the twelfth century, the house of Alsace could afford the high costs of their expeditions— Thierry went to Jerusalem four times, Philip twice— and the counts' repeated absences in fact promoted administrative reform; the baillis and the Grote Bref were as much the products of crusading as the English and Norman judicial system and exchequers were the product of the king-duke's divided attentions.	metaphorical	1
But if, on balance, the Flemish counts benefited materially from crusading,— as, arguably, did the Angevin— they were far from typical.	metaphorical	1
For other French houses a commitment to Outremer often represented a sacrifice of domestic political interest.	metaphorical	1
The achievements of Raymond IV St Gilles in consolidating his authority within Toulouse were threatened by his departure in 1095, especially since it was known that he had no intention of returning home.	metaphorical	1
Then his example lured his elder son Bertrand to Tripoli in 1112, and his younger son Alphonse Jourdain there in 1147.	metaphorical	1
Had not his grandson Raymond V fulfilled his crusading obligation in his early youth, thereby freeing himself from the necessity of interrupting his career in the county, the principality of Toulouse might have disintegrated altogether.	metaphorical	1
William IX's crusade of 1101 brought about serious financial problems in Aquitaine which caused rapid devaluation in the hitherto stable currency; and Robert Curthose's decision to mortgage Normandy to William Rufus in order to cover his crusading expenses exacerbated a conflict over the duchy which was not settled until the death of his son William Clito in 1128.	metaphorical	1
All in all, it was not surprising that Suger, mulling over the precedents of early crusading, tried to dissuade Louis VII from embarking on his Jerusalem journey in 1145.	metaphorical	1
Yet the appeal of crusading was, if anything, even stronger to those aristocratic houses just below the level of the princely: it was, after all, the house of Boulogne which produced the first two rulers of Jerusalem.	metaphorical	1
The counts of Nevers, the lords of Montpellier, the lords of Amboise and Lusignan, the Trencavels, were fervent devotees of the ideal; so the problems of absences, shipwrecks, death abroad plagued them as much as  their princes.	literal	0
On occasion, their determination to sacrifice for Christ played directly into their overlord's hands, as when the count of La Marche, who had no direct heir, sold his county to King Henry II in 1177.	metaphorical	1
When it did not, accompanying their princes in a joint crusading venture, as the lord of Amboise accompanied Fulk V or Hugh VI de Lusignan William IX, created new personal links.	metaphorical	1
The political spin-offs from crusading are therefore more difficult to calculate than at first glance they might appear.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless it is clear that the chief gainer was Louis VII.	metaphorical	1
The irony of this lay in the fact that the Second Crusade was counter-productive in Outremer, embittered relations with Byzantium, and resulted in the deaths of enormous numbers of its participants, particularly those drawn from the non­aristocratic classes.	metaphorical	1
Yet it consolidated the king's position within France, partly through the skilled regency of Suger, but also because, in taking on himself the leadership of the expedition, Louis re- emerged as a credible ruler of men.	metaphorical	1
His noble gesture appeased those churchmen who had been appalled by his early obstinacy over the archbishopric of Bourges.	metaphorical	1
The disasters that befell his army paradoxically heightened his personal charisma: even the barons of Outremer continued to look on him as their one potential saviour.	metaphorical	1
His friendship with Raymond V of Toulouse, a fellow warrior, reversed the trend of history since the middle of the tenth century, in bringing the princes of the far south back into the king's mouvance.	metaphorical	1
The crowds of Burgundians who accompanied the king learned to respect him; on their return, they sought the arbitration of the royal court in their disputes, and they welcomed Louis's intervention within the counties that fringed the duchy of Burgundy.	metaphorical	1
As William of St Denis put it, 	metaphorical	1
Even as early as 1147 it was apparent that the crusading movement had provided a new sense of aristocratic cohesion  in the realm.	metaphorical	1
The great joint expeditions, the combined leaderships, although not without friction, had been justified by their outstanding achievement, the conquest and maintenance of Jerusalem.	metaphorical	1
They were the Gesta Francorum, the deeds of the Franks, or the Gesta Dei per Francos, God's deeds performed through the Franks, as two of their earliest chroniclers entitled them.	metaphorical	1
But what was missing before 1147 was a clear sense of who the Franks were.	metaphorical	1
The Second Crusade, however, was launched with St Bernard's ringing appeal to the count and barons of Brittany: 	metaphorical	1
In taking his place at the head of the Second Crusade, the Rex Francorum decisively hastened the transformation of the Franks into the French.	metaphorical	1
5	literal	0
The Philosopher's Child	literal	0
Judith Hughes	literal	0
SOME OF OUR CHILDREN ARE MISSING	metaphorical	1
Children have served philosophy very well.	metaphorical	1
That is the first thing which anyone surveying the literature would notice.	metaphorical	1
Along with a selection from a list including women, animals, madmen, foreigners, slaves, patients and imbeciles, children have served in that great class of beings, the‘not-men’, in contrast with which male philosophers have defined and valued themselves.	metaphorical	1
Unlike the others who appear and disappear as fashion and progress dictate, children occupy a permanent place in the list partly because of their continuing presence as a potential sub-class, partly because they have never protested and mainly because it is assumed that in favourable circumstances they will become men and therefore require attention.	metaphorical	1
They have received it in the shape of detailed educational theory carefully worked out to see them through the maturation process from infancy to adulthood.	metaphorical	1
Generations of philosophers have documented this process.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps the best known version is Shakespeare's seven ages of man which is a poetic statement of what had already been received wisdom for centuries and was to remain so for centuries to come.	metaphorical	1
Education was to guide the infant through the transition to manhood including such stages as childhood, boyhood and youth.	metaphorical	1
That is the second thing to notice; the philosopher's children are boys.	metaphorical	1
The fact that at least half of the world's children would not actually go through this process beyond the first two stages is conveniently forgotten or ignored and, no doubt, the reasons for this were largely social.	metaphorical	1
But the neglect of girl children through the centuries of theorising is more than a social injustice, though many might think this real and bad enough.	metaphorical	1
Education has an end.	metaphorical	1
Although it is fashionable to talk about its value‘for its own sake’, what prompts the theorising is the strong and well-founded belief that the experiences of childhood affect the kind of adult which the child turns out to be.	metaphorical	1
Where the end is  person- rather than role-oriented— that is, where the end is the development of the human mind and spirit rather than the production of, say, information technologists— then education is valued in relation to some conception of worthwhile human existence which it is meant to serve.	metaphorical	1
Such an ideal does not stand isolated from the practices which strive towards it but interacts with those practices, helps to construct them, and is in turn constructed by them.	metaphorical	1
The great philosophers have always produced such a person-oriented account at least for those whose education was thought to matter.	metaphorical	1
Education has been directed at the production of the rational, the free, the independent of mind, the dignified, in short, the autonomous human being.	metaphorical	1
Yet because the philosopher's adult has traditionally been male, his children boy children, and his educational programmes designed to facilitate the transition between them, the ideal of the fully human person has been masculinised to the point where otherwise thoughtful and sometimes good and wise men have unashamedly admitted that this defining ideal is not applicable to half the species.	metaphorical	1
Rationality turns into narrow intellectualism, freedom into licence, independence into isolationism, dignity into selfish pride; the autonomous human being turns out to be no more than a social atom after all.	metaphorical	1
The degeneration occurs, not because men are congenitally or even incorrigibly narrow, libertine, isolated or selfish, but because in defining themselves as autonomous beings in opposition to other human beings they have had to seek what separates them as a group from others.	metaphorical	1
It is a curiously paradoxical foundation upon upon which to build a theory of autonomy.	metaphorical	1
Moral autonomy is concerned with individuals not with groups; a conception of autonomy which depends upon group membership displays its own contradiction.	metaphorical	1
This paper is partly about the rejection of certain accounts of autonomy though not with the rejection of the ideal of autonomy itself.	metaphorical	1
It is also about children.	metaphorical	1
WOMEN PHILOSOPHERS AND GIRL CHILDREN	literal	0
Why should women in general and women philosophers in particular be specially interested in the nature and status of children?	metaphorical	1
There are, of course, the familiar and obvious reasons  connected with women's traditional role in child-rearing but there are less obvious reasons too.	metaphorical	1
When philosophers dismiss women as‘not-men’ they frequently do more than simply lump them together with children or lunatics.	metaphorical	1
Explicitly or implicitly the suggestion is that women are children or lunatics or whichever other company they keep.	metaphorical	1
It would be well to know just what this entails.	metaphorical	1
Schopenhauer said that women remain big children all their lives; it would be interesting to know what he thought children were like.	metaphorical	1
A common result of this is that when the philosophers deny autonomy to women, they do so for the same sorts of reason that they deny it to children and cite lack of rationality, capriciousness and vulnerability among their characteristics.	metaphorical	1
We can do more than to reject such descriptions of ourselves; we can ask further questions: are children like this? is this why children are not autonomous?	metaphorical	1
Again, women well know what it is like to be treated as children and they find it offensive.	metaphorical	1
It would therefore be reasonable to consider whether children find it offensive to be treated like children.	metaphorical	1
Is being treated as a child an intrinsically humiliating and self-denying experience?	literal	0
What is it to be treated as a child?	literal	0
Women philosophers are in a special position to consider such questions for in the image of the philosopher's child they see themselves.	metaphorical	1
It is no accident that the liberation of women, such as it is, should form part of a wider movement of liberation in general; liberation for one part of the‘not-men’ is bound to have a knock-on effect when your fellow groups are sometimes quite literally identified with you.	metaphorical	1
The assumption that all groups in the‘not-men’ class are identical with each other is so firmly rooted that, as we shall see in the fourth section, it is readily assumed even by modern libertarian thinkers that showing that, for example, some ground for distinguishing between men and women is false or irrelevant, immediately commits us to the view that the same ground is irrelevant in distinguishing men from children.	metaphorical	1
‘That's what they used to say about women’ is not a proof that saying it about a child is false.	metaphorical	1
But it should make us very suspicious.	metaphorical	1
That when women are given the vote it follows that children should be given it too is no argument at all, but a version of it occurs in modern debates over the justice or injustice of Mill's famous disclaimer in his essay On Liberty.	metaphorical	1
Having denied that we may ever legitimately interfere with the liberty of another except on the grounds of self-protection, Mill(1910) asserts:	metaphorical	1
this principle is meant to apply only to human beings in the  maturity of their faculties.	metaphorical	1
We are not speaking of children or of young persons below the age which the law may fix as that of manhood or womanhood.	metaphorical	1
Those who are still in a state to require being taken care of by others must be protected against their own actions as well as against external injury.	metaphorical	1
(p.73)	literal	0
This view, as we shall see, has been attacked on the grounds that it rests on the false assumption that the distinction between adults and children is identical with the distinction between rational and non-rational beings.	metaphorical	1
The attacks are based on empirical observation; most women and older children are actually quite as rational as most men while some men are actually less rational.	metaphorical	1
If we agree that in that case women should be embraced by the liberty principle then so should children.	metaphorical	1
I shall suggest that this does not follow because rationality is not in fact the grounds for the distinction in the first place.	metaphorical	1
Partly to redress the balance and partly because talking about‘children’ covers such a wide range of potential images, I shall try to keep before my mind an ordinary 10-year-old of our society.	metaphorical	1
She is the child of this paper unless I indicate otherwise.	metaphorical	1
Throughout we should ask ourselves, does this(whatever is being said) apply to her?	metaphorical	1
First of all, let us remind ourselves of the traditional picture of children drawn for us by some great philosophers of the past.	metaphorical	1
One thing they are all quite sure about is that children are not like adults; in particular they agree that children lack some capacity for rational thought which adults have.	metaphorical	1
NOW WE ARE 6— OR 10— OR 18….	literal	0
the slave has absolutely no deliberative faculty; the woman has but its authority is imperfect; so has the child, but in this case it is immature.	metaphorical	1
(Aristotle, 1959,1260A)	literal	0
Children… are not endued with Reason at all, till they have attained the use of speech but are called Reasonable Creatures for the possibility apparent of having the use of Reason in time to come.	metaphorical	1
(Hobbes, 1914, p. 21)	literal	0
[ Children]… love to be treated as Rational Creatures sooner than is imagined…[ by which]…	literal	0
I mean, that you should  make them sensible by the Mildness of your carriage, and the composure even in your correction of them, that what you do is reasonable in you and useful and necessary for them.	metaphorical	1
(Locke, 1968, p. 181)	literal	0
In training for youth, the child must be given reasons; in the training of the infant for childhood this can not be done.	metaphorical	1
Young children ought merely to have things shown to them as they are, or they get puzzled and ask question after question.	metaphorical	1
But as we approach the age of youth reason appears.	metaphorical	1
At what age ought the education for youth to begin?	metaphorical	1
Roughly at the age of ten years, when by nature the child enters the stage of youth and begins to reflect…	metaphorical	1
The youth… is capable of having principles; his religious and moral ideas can be cultivated, and he is able to attend to his own refinement.	metaphorical	1
(Kant, 1930, pp. 250–1)	literal	0
If a society lets any considerable number of its members grow up mere children, incapable of being acted on by rational consideration of distant motives, society has itself to blame for the consequences.	metaphorical	1
(Mill, 1910, p. 139)	literal	0
What are the philosophers' children like?	literal	0
They have an‘immature’ deliberative faculty(Aristotle), are not‘endued with Reason’(Hobbes), until roughly the age of 10(Kant) and are‘incapable of being acted upon by rational consideration of distant motives’(Mill).	metaphorical	1
But they are not completely lost causes.	metaphorical	1
The immature deliberative faculty will mature; children have the‘possibility apparent’ of turning into rational beings(Hobbes); they love to be reated as though they were rational though they are not so yet(Locke); you can give the prerational child reasons for acting in certain ways and he will turn into the youth who is capable of having principles(Kant).	metaphorical	1
Until the time when these things happen then Mill's disclaimer comes into operation.	metaphorical	1
Children must be taken care of by others and protected from external injury and against their own actions.	metaphorical	1
The traditional view is encapsulated in the claim that children are not autonomous; that is, on a standard interpretation, they lack the capacity to act rationally in pursuit of their own self-chosen goals.	metaphorical	1
It is then a matter of preference whether you say that they can not choose the goals or that they can not form strategies to achieve them or both.	metaphorical	1
In either case, the political implication is that denying rights  to children is entirely justified, and there the matter rests.	metaphorical	1
In all this, there are perhaps a couple of things which look plausible when we compare the philosopher's child with our mental picture; Aristotle's observation that children are immature and Mill's suggestion that they might need protection.	metaphorical	1
Beyond that, the similarities seem remote.	metaphorical	1
There is obviously something wrong with a portrayal of children as totally lacking in reason until they leap out of bed on their tenth birthday announcing that they are now able to act on principle.	metaphorical	1
Apart from being false, such an account leaves no room in our thinking about children for things like teaching and learning, or development in understanding and character and all those other concepts which refer to processes and not to states.	metaphorical	1
The tension between these theoretical views of children as non-rational, non- autonomous beings and the practical knowledge of real children is evident in those quotations from Hobbes and Locke and Kant and Mill.	metaphorical	1
Children, according to Hobbes, have the‘possibility apparent’ of becoming reasonable.	metaphorical	1
In what does the possibility consist?	metaphorical	1
Hobbes is not using an inductive argument here; the‘possibility apparent’ is not an inductive argument from observations about past children but is meant to refer to some discernible feature of present ones.	metaphorical	1
But what?	literal	0
Hobbes does not tell us, but whatever it is it had better be something which a monkey does not have.	metaphorical	1
It is not language since Hobbes is here talking about the prelinguistic child.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps it consists in the ability to respond intelligently to the language of others.	metaphorical	1
But then, either Hobbes has failed to distinguish the child from at least the higher and domesticated animals or the force of‘intelligently’ must be explained in such a way as to exclude animals.	metaphorical	1
In any case, if such a qualification is called for it is hard to see how a creature with no rationality at all could possess it.	metaphorical	1
Locke's remarks are just as puzzling.	literal	0
Children are definitely not rational but love to be treated as if they were.	literal	0
How is this possible?	metaphorical	1
Apparently they like having things explained to them without understanding either the explanation or even what an explanation is.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps he just means that they like the sound of my voice?	literal	0
Well, maybe they do, but making any old noises is clearly not sufficient to enter the rationality stakes; I must at least say something.	metaphorical	1
Is it just that I talk to them that they love?	metaphorical	1
Maybe, but I can also, if I like, talk to my car, but yelling at it in the approved Basil Fawlty manner is hardly treating it as rational.	metaphorical	1
Lockean children have the added  amazing ability to recognise reason in you without possessing any themselves, while Kantian kids, two stages back from rationality, have the disconcerting habit of getting puzzled and asking questions.	metaphorical	1
Mill's minors are a little more complicated.	literal	0
Part of the time he sees them in the familiar way as creatures who lack rationality to at least some degree.	metaphorical	1
But in the disclaimer his children need above all to be protected from the ghastly consequences of their own actions.	metaphorical	1
Their problem seems to be not one of the inability to choose goals or to form strategies for achieving them, but an incorrigible propensity to choose the wrong ones and an awesome efficiency in achieving them unless adults intervene.	metaphorical	1
All in all, it is a pretty unconvincing picture.	metaphorical	1
If you say that children are completely non-rational then you have to account for the fact that they become rational, and to do that it appears from these examples that you have to assume that they already are.	metaphorical	1
If, on the other hand, you allow rationality to children, then you can not use their lack of it as a criterion to distinguish them from adults.	metaphorical	1
Hobbes et al.	literal	0
are not aware of the unreality of their original pictures which is why, often in the same sentence, they produce these contradictions.	metaphorical	1
The one thing they do not do is to re-examine the original for the tell-tale signs of forgery.	metaphorical	1
ILLEGITIMATE INFERENCES	literal	0
The recognition that children can not simply be written off in the rationality stakes and can not therefore be denied autonomy on this account has led some writers to conclude that they can not, therefore, be denied it on any account.	metaphorical	1
We should notice that this view is not just a flight of fancy from the loony left, the pederast lobby or children themselves.	metaphorical	1
It is also to be found in stronger or weaker versions of more cautious academic thought.	metaphorical	1
In Escape from Childhood(1974), John Holt notes that children are, in fact, capable of a great deal more than modern society allows them to be.	metaphorical	1
He sees childhood as a fairly modern invention designed to fit adult rather than children's needs, and an oppressive invention at that.	metaphorical	1
He suggests that children should be given a comprehensive range of civil and legal rights including the right to vote, to manage their own financial affairs, to direct and manage their own education and to control their own sex lives and 	metaphorical	1
to make and enter into, on a basis of mutual consent, quasifamilial relationships outside one's immediate family— i.e. the right to seek and choose guardians other than one's own parents and to be legally dependent on them.	metaphorical	1
(Holt, 1974, p. 16)	literal	0
This is also the view put forward by John Harris, though in less specific terms.	metaphorical	1
Like Holt, Harris believes that the so-called incompetence of children is an adult invention imposed on children for adults' convenience.	metaphorical	1
He makes a firm proposal that the age of majority should be gradually reduced to 10 years, and remarks:	metaphorical	1
We must remember that to deny someone control of their own lives is to offer them a most profound insult, not to mention the which the frustration of their wishes and the setting at naught of their own plans for themselves will add.	metaphorical	1
Perhaps we should conduct annual examinations from an early age to be sure that we do as little of this sort of damage as possible?	metaphorical	1
(Harris, 1982, p. 49)	literal	0
Now Holt and Harris both have many wise, enlightened and humane observations to make about some of the injustices which we inflict upon children, but as these remarks show, putting them right without inflicting equally grave injustice is no easy matter.	metaphorical	1
Both of them appear to suffer from a form of mental myopia in imagining the consequences of such proposals, and I am not here referring only to Mill-type consequences of harm brought about by unwise decisions.	metaphorical	1
What, we may ask Holt, happens to the child who, dissatisfied at home, seeks in vain for guardians who would suit him?	metaphorical	1
What if no one wants him?	literal	0
Our papers are currently full of‘hard-to-place’ children in local authority care advertising for foster or adoptive parents.	metaphorical	1
In such a situation the skilled care of social workers is crucial to ensuring that an unwanted by-product of success for some children is not the total destruction of self-esteem for others.	metaphorical	1
What, we may ask Harris, happens to the child who repeatedly fails his annual examination?	metaphorical	1
To impose such a test on children would be a particularly invidious way of discriminating against them, unless Harris has in mind that we should all undergo such examination.	metaphorical	1
He might then be open to bitter objections from many adults.	metaphorical	1
These two suggestions, far from being enlightened liberation of all children,  are actually oppression of a deeply damaging kind to at least some, and Harris's suggestion contains a capacity criterion in disguise.	metaphorical	1
In any case, it would be dishonest to pretend that Mill-type consequences are not relevant here.	metaphorical	1
Suppose Holt's 6-year-old does opt out of school?	metaphorical	1
What happens to her then?	metaphorical	1
What happens if her father is unwilling or unable to stay at home with her?	literal	0
Is it any better to oblige her to go abseiling or butterfly-catching instead?	literal	0
However much she may enjoy such pursuits, there will be times when she would actually rather wander the streets unaccompanied.	literal	0
Given that Holt is presumably not volunteering himself to take care of her, who will?	metaphorical	1
His view that letting children run in and out of busy airports smartly avoiding the traffic is perfectly reasonable depends upon a conception of a child which is far narrower than even the sex divide.	metaphorical	1
Holt's child is actually the Artful Dodger; mercifully, not all children are.	metaphorical	1
There are other difficulties too.	literal	0
It is not clear whether or not Harris thinks that children of 10 should be obliged to take on full political status whether or not they want to, but Holt clearly does not.	metaphorical	1
He proposes that‘the rights, privileges, duties, responsibilities of adult citizens be made available to any young person, of whatever age, who wants to make use of them’(Holt, 1974, p. 15).	metaphorical	1
If Holt thinks that this proposal would remove an arbitrary boundary line between adults and children, then he is mistaken.	metaphorical	1
The point about an adult citizen is that he has these rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities whether or not he wants them.	metaphorical	1
He may not exercise his rights or he may shirk his duties, but he can not forgo them.	metaphorical	1
They are not just available to him, they are his.	metaphorical	1
That is what being a citizen involves.	metaphorical	1
Rights and privileges do not pose any particular problems in the case of children.	metaphorical	1
Holt can and does believe that children should have them as adults do, and then leaves it up to the child to decide whether or not to exercise them.	metaphorical	1
But the same can not be said for duties and responsibilities.	metaphorical	1
Failure to exercise one's rights may be morally neutral; failure to carry out one's duties is not.	metaphorical	1
It would be perfectly possible to give the rights to children without imposing the duties on them, the one does not entail the other, but we would then still be distinguishing between adults and children as citizens.	metaphorical	1
Children still would not have full political status.	metaphorical	1
Duties and responsibilities are not merely available to a citizen; they are an integral part of being a citizen.	metaphorical	1
Holt does not want children to be obliged to take on any of these responsibilities  and he manages to make his point by concentrating solely on the rights so that he can remark:	metaphorical	1
I do not say, either, that these rights and duties should be tied into one package, that if a young person wants to assume any of them, he must assume them all.	metaphorical	1
He should be able to pick and choose.	metaphorical	1
(Holt, 1974, p. 16)	literal	0
If he can‘pick and choose’, I suggest, he is not a citizen, he does not have full political status and he is quite distinguishable on these grounds alone from the adults around him who do not have this option.	metaphorical	1
Holt and Harris both, in the end, face the same problem.	metaphorical	1
They attack the status quo by pointing out that the reasons given for denying rights to children are bad reasons, and then explicitly or implicitly deny them duties for no reason at all.	metaphorical	1
Whatever else such a strategy may achieve, it certainly does not manage to produce a situation in which children are politically indistinguishable from adults and it rests on premises which, unless they can be defended, gain nothing for any defence to the charge of arbitrariness.	metaphorical	1
WHEN IN DOUBT, GO BACK TO ARISTOTLE	metaphorical	1
The trouble with all the views which we have looked at is that they tie the notion of autonomy firmly and solely to that of knowledge interpreted in either a broad or narrow sense.	metaphorical	1
That it is firmly tied must be correct; the inhabitants of Brave New World are not autonomous precisely because they are denied access to relevant information.	metaphorical	1
Relevant knowledge is a precondition of autonomy but it is not synonymous with it.	metaphorical	1
Aristotle said something very interesting in that extract from the Politics which I quoted earlier; he said that women have a deliberative faculty but that it lacks full authority.	metaphorical	1
What did he mean?	literal	0
Revival under Law, 1911–1914	metaphorical	1
Few contemporaries would have expected Balfour's retirement to lead to a Unionist recovery.	metaphorical	1
The party was in a mutinous condition in November 1911 and there was no apparent successor who would have even half of Balfour's political gifts.	metaphorical	1
Nor was it clear that Balfour's departure was universally desired: at the National Union Conference a few days later, Leo Maxse was booed off the platform, and constituency parties everywhere passed resolutions regretting Balfour's decision.	metaphorical	1
A great many crocodile tears were shed, for, since Unionists had such an elevated view of the principle of leadership, they were unable to accept that they had just driven their own leader from office.	metaphorical	1
The shock caused by Balfour's going thus did something to steady the party and it certainly produced a real determination to settle the affairs of the party with less friction than had been fashionable of late.	metaphorical	1
The main contenders for the leadership were Austen Chamberlain and Walter Long, representing the two different establishments of the Edwardian Unionist party— the opposite worlds of Birmingham and Wiltshire— but the situation was complicated by the intervention of two outsiders, Edward Carson and Andrew Bonar Law.	metaphorical	1
Two strong groups emerged behind Long and Chamberlain, about equal in numbers, but there were few backers for Carson or Law.	metaphorical	1
Carson thereupon fell out of the contest— or rather announced that he was not standing, for no official nominations had been made.	metaphorical	1
The party officers and Whips were solidly behind Chamberlain, but Law drew off some of his support among tariff reformers and, urged on by Edward Goulding and Max Aitken, he refused to withdraw unless his continued candidature would allow Long to win.	metaphorical	1
Against Chamberlain it was remembered that he was a Liberal Unionist(as was Lansdowne, who led the Unionists in the Lords) and that he had not been entirely loyal to Balfour since the referendum pledge.	metaphorical	1
Long was supported by the bulk of the English county members but by few of the party's men of talent.	metaphorical	1
By the morning of Friday 10 November it was clear that neither Chamberlain nor Long would secure a majority and that some supporters of each of them would not contentedly follow the other.	metaphorical	1
A party meeting was to be held on the following Monday and the Whips were making preparation for a vote to be taken.	metaphorical	1
Chamberlain provided the way out by suggesting to Balcarres that both he and Long should withdraw and so allow Law to be elected unanimously; he also turned down  Balcarres's remarkable advice that he should allow Long to be elected since Long would make such a mess of things that Chamberlain would be bound to succeed within the year.	metaphorical	1
Faced with Chamberlain's proposition, and without a majority of his own, Long had no option but to agree.	metaphorical	1
Bonar Law, backed by fewer MPs than any of the other three contenders at the beginning of the week was now to be the unanimous choice.	metaphorical	1
Robert Sanders reported the"election"meeting on 13 November with evident satisfaction:	metaphorical	1
The Carlton meeting on Monday went off quite admirably.	metaphorical	1
Harry Chaplin in the chair a very great success.	metaphorical	1
A good many men came into the room by no means inclined to acquiesce in the proposed arrangement.	metaphorical	1
Walter Long proposed Bonar Law.	literal	0
His speech was one of the best things I have heard.	metaphorical	1
Manly and rather touching.	metaphorical	1
The country gentleman at his best.	metaphorical	1
He spoke and evidently felt strongly of the degradation that it would have been to the parry to have elected a leader by secret ballot.	metaphorical	1
Austen followed.	metaphorical	1
When Austen sat down Chaplin suggested that he had better put the question at once and on getting an affirmative shout did so.	metaphorical	1
A clever way of stifling discussion and few could have done it so well.	metaphorical	1
Motion carried unanimously.	metaphorical	1
Bonar Law then sent for…	literal	0
His speech struck me as the feeblest of the day.	metaphorical	1
He was evidently moved and nervous.	metaphorical	1
The meeting separated in great content with the Conservative Party all round.	metaphorical	1
It was certainly creditable.	literal	0
The urgency of the events following Balfour's resignation was due to the need to find a new leader before the National Union Conference.	metaphorical	1
So within a few days of his grudging acceptance by his parliamentary colleagues, Law's leadership was ratified by the throng of party notables at Leeds; here he received a reception more typical of what was to come in the future.	metaphorical	1
In 1911 Law was known— in so far as he was known at all in the parliamentary party— as a spirited debater.	metaphorical	1
A.).	literal	0
P. Taylor has noted that Law was trained, if he was trained for anything in his early career, to be a debater.	metaphorical	1
In Glasgow he had picked up many of the skills that a more highly-born politician might have acquired in the Oxford Union or at the Bar, but skills that were very different in appearance.	metaphorical	1
His concern was solely with effectiveness rather than style; he rarely spoke with more than brief notes and left it to the occasion to furnish the words.	metaphorical	1
(When he became Chancellor of the Exchequer this practice caused consternation at the Treasury, when he used only a page of notes to assist him in moving complicated resolutions on wartime finance; he relied successfully on his memory to provide details and figures.)	metaphorical	1
As an extempore speaker he was able to tailor his words to his audience's reactions and so convey the impression of personal conversation even when addressing thousands.	metaphorical	1
In parliament he was wont to abandon an argument half-completed if he sensed that his point had been made; the speeches that appear in Hansard were touched up by his staff, and his speeches in the country were given to the press in advance.	metaphorical	1
In debate he was a formidable opponent, and one that Asquith was never able to master, for all his forensic skills.	metaphorical	1
Again Law succeeded by unorthodoxy; he was quick to grasp the essentials of an opponent's argument and quite prepared to be rude  or direct if the situation demanded it.	metaphorical	1
In the long debates over Marconi in 1913 and over the Curragh"mutiny"in 1914 Law was able to nail Asquith's evasions where a more polished stylist might have been foiled.	metaphorical	1
Occasionally, in the onrush of pursuit, he gave commitments that were later regretted, but these were a small price to pay.	metaphorical	1
The Unionist recovery was built around Law's leadership, but what Asquith called the"new style"of obstruction, threats and offensive behaviour did not originate with Law.	metaphorical	1
The beginnings are to be found in the diehard campaign against the Parliament Bill.	metaphorical	1
It was in June 1911 that the first scenes of disorder were mounted in the House of Commons, led by Lord Hugh Cecil.	metaphorical	1
In August 1911 the diehard peers used language as violent as any that Law was to use later, and in the crucial decision on the House of Lords Law sided with the hedgers rather than the ditchers.	metaphorical	1
Ulster's opposition to Home Rule long pre-dated Law's leadership and he had rarely even spoken on Irish affairs in parliament before becoming leader.	metaphorical	1
Before he succeeded Balfour then, Law was not associated with any of the features that were to characterize his party leadership; his contribution was to use the leadership in the service of all of these causes, to make himself the spokesman for the most spirited sections of the party.	metaphorical	1
Law conceived of the role of the leader in an exactly opposite sense from Balfour: he sought to foster unity by placing himself at the head of the discordant elements where Balfour had thrown the leadership on the side of restraint.	metaphorical	1
Their respective positions explain this in part: as ex-Prime Minister and a considerable figure in his own right, Balfour had the confidence to believe in his own judgement even when isolated from the bulk of the party; as the tertium quid in the recent contest, Law had neither the weight nor the confidence to take such a detached view.	metaphorical	1
His strategy was rather to canalize the enthusiasm of the diehards into party channels, to articulate their views, and to create unity from the sense of movement.	metaphorical	1
In his characteristic phrase,"I am their leader, I must follow them"— but he determined to follow them from the front.	metaphorical	1
As a result of this he was labelled as a diehard and a bigot, when he actually distrusted the diehards and was himself distrusted by the bigots.	metaphorical	1
Much of his leadership was thus a form of pragmatic extremism, extreme action and the threat of more extreme action to come, but used in the cause of more limited objectives.	metaphorical	1
He certainly held deep convictions as to the absolute wrongness of the Liberal policies that he opposed, but at least a part of his apparent hostility was assumed for the occasion, a hard line that might secure a better compromise in the end.	metaphorical	1
So in his first major speech as leader in parliament he wasted little time on the customary compliments and warned the government that he intended to play hard.	metaphorical	1
In private conversation he told Asquith"I am afraid that I shall have to show myself very vicious Mr Asquith this session.	metaphorical	1
I hope you will understand."	literal	0
In later conversations about Ulster, Law was frank enough to point out that bloodshed in Ulster would be the best way of ensuring an electoral landslide for the Unionists.	metaphorical	1
There was then an  open toughness about party tactics; before the Buckingham Palace Conference in 1914 he had Central Office work out the electoral effects of excluding nine, six or four counties of Ulster from an independent Ireland the concern of a calculating pragmatist not of a bigot.	metaphorical	1
From the party viewpoint Law's methods were successful but dangerous; expectations raised when the party was in full cry were not easily set aside for an eventual compromise, and the only outcome that would fully vindicate the methods was the recovery of power.	metaphorical	1
The basis of recovery was then Law's fighting capacities as leader.	metaphorical	1
In parliament there would be a carefully organized campaign of resistance that would at least slow the government down and raise Unionist morale.	metaphorical	1
Improved morale would also make possible organizational advances outside parliament, all linked to the issue of Ulster, and with the sights fixed firmly on the next election, an election that would make or break the Union, the Empire and Law's leadership of the party.	metaphorical	1
All was linked to the sense of a new departure, a"new style", a"new regime in politics"and a new team at the helm: as well as a new leader, the party had by the middle of 1912 a new Chief Whip, Party Chairman, party treasurer, principal agent, press adviser, and an almost entirely new team of Whips and organizers.	metaphorical	1
Party organization provided the easiest advances because it was the only area entirely under the party's control.	metaphorical	1
No general election was fought by the organization set up after 1911, but there is little doubt that there was a massive improvement; criticisms that were commonplace in 1910 were not to be heard by 1913.	metaphorical	1
The space available to Central Office was increased by the acquisition of St Stephen's House as well as St Stephen's Chambers, which had been occupied since 1874; the new office cost$3,000 a year in rent alone.	metaphorical	1
The quality of the senior staff was improved by the appointment of three specialists.	metaphorical	1
John Boraston took over as Principal Agent in 1912, having been a professional organizer all his career and latterly chief agent to the Liberal Unionist Council.	metaphorical	1
He joined William Jenkins, appointed chief organizing agent in 1911 and previously district agent for the Midlands Liberal Unionists.	metaphorical	1
The party was indeed handed over to Birmingham.	metaphorical	1
Finally, Malcolm Fraser, ex-editor of the Standard and of the Daily Express became first honorary press adviser and subsequently was employed to run the press bureau at the colossal salary of£1,200.	metaphorical	1
Steel-Maitland, Boraston, Jenkins and Fraser made up a team of experts, all of sufficient status to deal with politicians who might call into the office; the work of the office was departmentalized for the first time and the heads of department brought together into a supervising board.	metaphorical	1
The influence of Central Office toned up the rest of the organization.	metaphorical	1
A new canvass system was introduced in 1911 so that all county constituencies would operate the same system and so that duplicate records could be kept at area level.	metaphorical	1
This was important at a time when outvoters were a larger group in many constituencies than the size of the majority and when the outvoters were overwhelmingly Unionist.	metaphorical	1
In 1914 a register of car owners was  compiled, also important when some voters could cast several votes in an election when polling went several days.	metaphorical	1
By November 1912 only fifty-one constituencies in Great Britain were without candidates, a much better position than the position at dissolution in either 1909 or 1910; few of these fifty-one constituencies were winnable, but in any case most of them had candidates by the end of 1913.	metaphorical	1
A programme of speakers for a general election was also ready by 1913, with both constituencies and politicians told in advance what they might expect.	metaphorical	1
The financial mismanagement that had reigned before 1911 was ended with the employment of professional accountants.	metaphorical	1
Expenditure on Central Office, district offices and the London office doubled from£32,466 in 1909–10 to$68,957 in 1913–14; the total expenditure of the party organization from central funds also doubled from$73,000 to over£150,000.	metaphorical	1
To pay for this outpouring, a great drive was mounted for additional income-by Farquhar and Steel-Maitland.	metaphorical	1
In 1912 ordinary subscriptions still brought in only£12000 a year and it proved difficult to raise them to anything like what was needed.	metaphorical	1
The method adopted was to canvass for capital donations that could then be invested to bring in a regular income, and both Balfour and Law were used to raise the wind.	metaphorical	1
Steel-Maitland told Balfour that"Farquhar and I are endeavouring to raise more money.	metaphorical	1
I think we are likely to succeed— thanks in part to the very generous example set by Lord Rothschild.	metaphorical	1
But I would b, e very glad if I might see you on your return to ask you to help me in two cases.	metaphorical	1
Systematic collections were made from peers and from the City; by the outbreak of war the invested funds amounted to$671,000— twice the sum in 1911 and worth four years"expenditure— and there was a special cash deposit of£120,000 for the coming election.	metaphorical	1
In three other areas, as much political as organizational, advances were made towards the management of the press, the coordination of the heterogeneous collection that made up the party, and the fostering of modern attitudes in the local parties.	metaphorical	1
Under Malcolm Fraser the party began to make effective use of its support in Fleet Street.	metaphorical	1
It had been recognized that Liberals had been more adept at handling the press because they were more ready to stoop to newspaper practices, as Sandars had reported in 1909:	metaphorical	1
I told Northcliffe that if his people would make enquiries at our Central Office, he would find that our nightly regiment of speakers was at least as well worth reporting as the Radical contingent, but that I realized that from the Press point of view, no doubt, our speakers did not play up to the reporters by> handing them their speeches in advance, and by other tricks of the kind to which the Radical orators have recourse.	metaphorical	1
This was the essence of the problem: the press could only be managed by someone who knew their methods and who would not expect them to come round to Central Office to search for news.	metaphorical	1
The UOC found that"it is patent that some feeling exists among the Unionist Press that, while in the past they have done much for the Party, the Party has not assisted in their work.	metaphorical	1
In  many quarters it is asserted that the Unionist Press are treated with greater courtesy by the Radicals than by their own side."	metaphorical	1
Fraser dealt with this problem without difficulty and explained to Law in 1913 that"the importance of getting important speeches in advance is shown in concrete manner by your Wallsend speech on October 29th.	metaphorical	1
The verbatim reports reached most of the newspapers in places such as Aberdeen at one o"clock in the morning of the 30th."	metaphorical	1
He went on to quote the response that had been received from editors:	metaphorical	1
Manchester Dispatch: I hope you will continue this form of enterprise.	metaphorical	1
You fully know as an old pressman the difficulty of dealing with a big speech late at night…	metaphorical	1
Daily Express: I am much obliged to you for the precis of Mr Bonar Law's speech last night.	metaphorical	1
It was a great help to us.	metaphorical	1
The speech came over the wires so late and the sheets were so confused by the Post Office— which is usual in these cases— that without the precis we could not possibly have got the leader through in time for the first edition.	metaphorical	1
So in the supply of information to newspapers predisposed to support the party, much was achieved merely by employing a specialist.	metaphorical	1
The other side of press management, depending on informal contacts, is less easy to assess.	metaphorical	1
In 1911 Steel-Maitland invited Blumenfeld of the Daily Express to Central Office for a two-way exchange of ideas and advice.	metaphorical	1
He also used Law himself to impress editors who were on less familiar terms with Fraser, as with Marlowe of the Daily Mail, and Law took a direct interest in negotiations with the most difficult of all the Unionist editors, J. L. Garvin of the Observer.	metaphorical	1
Law personally conducted the negotiations with Gardner Sinclair over the sale of the Observer and the Pall Mall Gazette in 1914; this negotiation also demonstrates that, as well as producing information and nursing editors, the party had to work hard to keep some of the newspapers in business.	metaphorical	1
Sinclair did buy the Observer and the Pall Mall in the end, but not before he had been given a$45,000 guarantee from party funds.	metaphorical	1
Such investments had a double purpose, for they could bring in income and provide a political bonus.	metaphorical	1
One such scheme involved the purchase of the Daily Express by Max Aitken with party funds, but the party was also propping up the Globe, the Standard, and a wide range of provincial dailies.	metaphorical	1
All these transactions were secret, for there would be little use in keeping a paper alive if it were known to be owned by a political party.	metaphorical	1
The papers were therefore bought through nominees or bank loans backed with party capital.	metaphorical	1
It was usual to extract some form of guarantee in exchange for party support but the secrecy prevented such undertakings from being enforced.	metaphorical	1
Sinclair thus gave an undertaking that his papers would always remain Unionist, but Steel-Maitland doubted if such a promise had any value.	metaphorical	1
The later history of the Daily Express suggests not: when the Express became hostile in the 1920s, Younger raged"when I think of the large sum of money this office has put into that gutter print it makes my blood boil".	metaphorical	1
The justification for pouring out large sums without a certain return was the even greater cost  of any real alternative.	metaphorical	1
The support for the Express in 1912"provides for the introduction of£50,000 or$60,000 to retain the only half-penny paper the Party possesses in London, and no less a sum than$700,000 to£1, 000,000 would be necessary to start a similar paper if the Daily Express were allowed to go.	metaphorical	1
The struggle therefore went on to keep the Unionist press alive, and in 1912 and 1913 both Aitken and Northcliffe stood by the party and gave valuable support in their papers.	metaphorical	1
The coordination of competing party bodies was carried out with surprising ease.	metaphorical	1
The National Union was merged with Central Office in 1911 and fusion with the Liberal Unionists followed in 1912.	metaphorical	1
Joseph Chamberlain retained his preference for independence but allowed himself to be overruled by Austen and by the overwhelming wishes of the Liberal Unionist Council to merge.	metaphorical	1
To cater for all susceptibilities, the party became the"National Unionist Association of Conservative and Unionist Associations"— a decision that allowed some local parties to go on calling themselves Conservative, but the name"Liberal"was at last dropped.	metaphorical	1
The Liberal Unionists were admitted to the Carlton Club and a longstanding source of tension was eradicated.	metaphorical	1
This was in itself a striking commentary on what had already been done: Liberal Unionists who had resisted amalgamation under Balfour and Acland-Hood in 1911 acquiesced meekly under Law and Steel-Maitland in 1912.	metaphorical	1
Other organizations could not be absorbed but could still be brought within the Central Office orbit.	metaphorical	1
So in 1911 Steel-Maitland offered to join the Halsbury Club in order to guide it on to safer lines— and was immediately accused of disloyalty by Walter Long.	metaphorical	1
Long helped though by placing both Steel-Maitland and Boraston on the Executive Committee of the Union Defence League for the same purpose.	metaphorical	1
Steel-Maitland also explained to Lord Robert Cecil that"it has been arranged that the National Conservative Union should send out leaflets produced by several of the ancillary organizations, such as the Tariff Reform League, the Anti-Socialist Union, the Primrose League, the London Municipal Society etc."	metaphorical	1
The Central Office attitude was flexible, for outside bodies would always exist and could even be made use of:	metaphorical	1
They represent a time when either their objects were not the same as those of the official organization, or the CCO was not enterprising enough to suit them.	metaphorical	1
But some caution should be observed.	metaphorical	1
It may be wise, while retaining or regaining control, to trade under different names.	metaphorical	1
In some cases additional subscriptions may be obtained, in others full responsibility may be avoided.	metaphorical	1
With open allies like the Primrose League, the case for collaboration was strong; for the first time in thirty years of existence the Primrose League formally linked itself with the party in 1914.	metaphorical	1
On the other hand, the independence of the Tariff Reform League was a positive advantage: after January 1913 the party supported the tariff policy but was not including them in its immediate programme, so that Central Office could continue to distribute tariff propaganda from the TRL without compromising party policy.	metaphorical	1
In general, efforts to ensure better coordination were a matter of the  patient building up of contacts, although the improved party morale and the greater efficiency of Central Office had removed their justification for existence.	metaphorical	1
TWENTY-EIGHT	literal	0
Nairobi.	literal	0
We start with a young man, Thomas Fairfax, in military khaki and flying jacket, climbing into his old biplane and taxiing down a runway.	metaphorical	1
He adjusts the flaps, zips up his jacket, pulls down his goggles.	literal	0
The runway is simply a strip of grass, cleared of rocks.	literal	0
The plane lurches into motion.	metaphorical	1
It bounces alarmingly as it gathers speed.	metaphorical	1
A few Africans, clutching sticks and wearing skins, watch the plane as it turns, pauses, and then accelerates, leaving a cloud of dust.	metaphorical	1
The plane climbs reluctantly, one set of wings dipping drunkenly.	metaphorical	1
Soon it is passing over the spectacular Rift Valley.	literal	0
There is no sign of civilization, but herds of zebra and wildebeest and clumps of elephants marble the valley floor.	metaphorical	1
Ol Doinyo Lengai.	literal	0
A group of Masai is clearing stones from a stretch of grassland, in the shadow of the Mountain of God.	metaphorical	1
A large white cross has been painted roughly on the ground.	literal	0
Claudia Cohn-Casson is sitting under an enormous African fig tree near by, at a camp table spread with a Somali cloth.	literal	0
She has in front of her a typewriter, her recorder and her notes.	literal	0
A servant is preparing lunch on a fire.	literal	0
Claudia hears something.	literal	0
She looks up into the sky in the direction of Ol Doinyo Lengai.	metaphorical	1
We catch sight of a small plane circling the mountain.	metaphorical	1
It dips its wings in acknowledgement of the landing strip, and circles, preparing to land.	metaphorical	1
Claudia stands up.	literal	0
She checks her appearance in a mirror hanging on a tree.	metaphorical	1
With her lower lip she tucks the upper lip  into her mouth for a moment.	literal	0
She is wearing a long fitted skirt of khaki.	literal	0
She adjusts her hat, a round bush hat, and walks towards the makeshift landing strip.	literal	0
The plane is taxiing, pursued by a group of running Masai warriors, glorious in their red and purple robes, ochred hair, lion head-dresses and so on.	literal	0
Claudia walks over towards the plane.	literal	0
She holds her hat on her head with one hand.	literal	0
The plane is still now, surrounded by the warriors.	literal	0
Fairfax is securing its wheels with rocks.	literal	0
He looks up to see her approaching.	literal	0
Behind her is Ol Doinyo Lengai.	literal	0
Its strange shape has become familiar to us.	metaphorical	1
His face is still dirty from the dust and oil, except that around his eyes is a white patch where the goggles were.	metaphorical	1
The Masai begin to sing.	literal	0
It is a strange, other-worldly noise.	literal	0
Claudia and Fairfax approach each other.	literal	0
The moment is unnaturally, poignantly, delayed.	literal	0
In his uniform, jacket unzipped, he is handsome and smiling.	literal	0
The singing of the Masai and the overwhelming landscape are thrilling.	literal	0
Claudia and Fairfax come closer.	literal	0
She is serene.	literal	0
He is perhaps surprised by her composure.	metaphorical	1
She kisses him, three times.	literal	0
‘I am so glad you came.’	literal	0
(Her accent is very French but she speaks English fluently.)	metaphorical	1
‘Anything to help a friend.’	literal	0
Fairfax is awkward.	literal	0
He would like to say something more graceful.	metaphorical	1
‘Your face is dirty.	literal	0
You look, how you say?, as a raccoon.’	metaphorical	1
Fairfax laughs.	literal	0
He wipes his face with his sleeve.	literal	0
‘Sorry.’	literal	0
‘I have prepared the lunch.’	literal	0
She touches his arm lightly.	literal	0
They start to walk the short distance to her camp.	literal	0
The throng of Masai surrounds them.	literal	0
Her servant brings a bowl of hot water for Fairfax.	literal	0
He washes his face.	literal	0
The Masai watch all this.	metaphorical	1
Fairfax and Claudia sit down on camp chairs.	literal	0
The Masai stand a short distance off, curious, but self-absorbed.	literal	0
‘What would you like to drink?’ 	literal	0
‘Can you manage a brandy and soda?’	metaphorical	1
‘I think so.’	literal	0
She speaks Swahili to the servant.	metaphorical	1
‘Now, do you want to tell me all the facts?’	literal	0
‘As far as I know them.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
The Masai who has been arrested, Tepilit, is from this district.	metaphorical	1
These people are from his engang.	metaphorical	1
He was supposed to deliver a bull to the district officer, it was about three weeks ago, and he decided at the last moment to replace the bull with another one.	metaphorical	1
But the district officer, Miles Turnbull, would not accept it…’	literal	0
Her face, as she removes her hat and begins to speak, is startlingly beautiful, although not conventionally.	literal	0
Fairfax watches her.	literal	0
As she talks the servant brings the drinks and then the lunch, a grilled fowl with some preserves.	literal	0
As she speaks we see a Masai market.	literal	0
Spread around are hundreds of Masai men and women.	metaphorical	1
Some of the women are in robes of blue, others are in brown, dyed skins.	literal	0
The older men have blankets loosely slung over their shoulders.	literal	0
Almost every man is accompanied by a goat or a cow, held on a short leather thong or controlled by a thin stick.	metaphorical	1
Those animals are accustomed to the Masai.	metaphorical	1
There is, incongruously, an open car to one side of the market.	literal	0
From it, into the colourful throng, appears a young British district officer, Miles Turnbull.	literal	0
He is carrying some papers and is accompanied by two askaris with rifles, and an interpreter, dressed in khakis.	literal	0
The askaris wear military sweaters, Sam Brownes, shorts and socks.	literal	0
On their heads they wear fezes.	literal	0
‘The whole thing was ridiculous and tragic.	metaphorical	1
This man was very much liked by the Masai.	metaphorical	1
But he was overworked.	literal	0
He had to collect the cattle and make sure that every boma was contributing his fair share.	metaphorical	1
His district stretches nearly one hundred and fifty miles.	metaphorical	1
I liked him, even though he was a little bit boring.	literal	0
He was so English.	literal	0
He could not speak Masai so he always was accompanied by this man, a Nandi, who, I am afraid, does not speak Masai very good.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘Very well.	literal	0
Sorry.’	literal	0
‘Very well.	literal	0
So the laibon's son from up there, up the valley past Lengai, he is a descendant of Mbatian, the great laibon, he tries to persuade Turnbull to let him take out his animal from the ones which have been selected.‘	metaphorical	1
The young warrior, Tepilit, is arguing with the district officer.	metaphorical	1
He is still vividly scarred from his recent encounter with a lion.	metaphorical	1
His face is painted and he is carrying a spear.	literal	0
On his head he wears a head-dress of lion mane.	literal	0
Turnbull explains through the interpreter that time is short; it is late; there is a great war on with the Germans.	metaphorical	1
He can not wait for the proposed exchange of animals.	literal	0
But he tries to be reasonable.	literal	0
‘How long will it take, anyway?’	metaphorical	1
‘Tomorrow it will be ready.	literal	0
I will bring it.’	literal	0
‘It will be too late.	literal	0
Tell him that I am very sorry but I can not make exceptions.	metaphorical	1
He has had plenty of time.’	metaphorical	1
The Masai warrior, Tepilit, is excited.	literal	0
A number of other Masai gather round.	literal	0
He says that this particular animal is a favourite.	metaphorical	1
He strokes its side, which is white and marked with round patches of black, like islands on a naïvely drawn map.	metaphorical	1
It is a beautiful animal, with huge, curved horns.	literal	0
‘I will bring you two cattle tomorrow.	literal	0
I will go now and deliver them myself to Narok.’	literal	0
‘Tell him I am very sorry, but I must fill the quota.’	metaphorical	1
Turnbull busies himself with his clipboard as his reply is translated.	literal	0
‘Take the animal now,’ he says to his assistant gently.	metaphorical	1
As they move forward, Tepilit, without warning, hurls his spear at the district officer from a few feet away.	metaphorical	1
It is a heavy weapon.	literal	0
Between the knife-shaped iron blade and the tapered tail of the spear is a rounded handle made from a particularly hard tree.	metaphorical	1
This piece of wood passes right through Turnbull, so that he is skewered.	metaphorical	1
A fountain of blood at first pours from his chest, but soon subsides become a steady trickle.	metaphorical	1
Tepilit watches as the district officer performs a brief hokey-cokey before falling face down.	metaphorical	1
This  drives the spear almost completely through his body.	metaphorical	1
Nobody moves.	literal	0
The watching Masai begin to walk away after a long, contemplative moment.	metaphorical	1
They seem to be weighing the incident carefully in their minds.	metaphorical	1
The askaris panic.	literal	0
They cock their rifles and fire into the air.	metaphorical	1
Now they guard the body, which is motionless in a lake of blood that is rapidly drying, drunk by the thirsty, insatiable soil.	metaphorical	1
You can almost hear the soil gulping.	metaphorical	1
Tepilit drives his bull away.	literal	0
He walks without a backward glance.	metaphorical	1
He has in one hand a stick and is followed by a thin dog.	literal	0
This little group begins to mount a hill.	metaphorical	1
Nobody makes a move to stop him.	metaphorical	1
The strange singing of the Masai rises.	metaphorical	1
From a distance we see Tepilit, walking steadily towards Ol Doinyo Lengai with his animals.	literal	0
They are tiny figures in a huge landscape.	literal	0
Fairfax has finished eating, but Claudia's food is untouched.	literal	0
‘The next day he presented himself for arrest.’	literal	0
‘Did you know this man?’	metaphorical	1
‘I knew his family well.’	literal	0
‘Did you see him after the killing?’	literal	0
‘He came to my house and told me what had happened.’	literal	0
‘And you told him to give himself up?’	literal	0
‘Of course.	literal	0
What else should I do?’	literal	0
‘I'm just asking.	literal	0
If I can do anything I must know the facts.’	literal	0
‘The facts are not so clear.	metaphorical	1
This man, Tepilit, was injured helping me with the filming of a lion hunt.	metaphorical	1
Now I must help him.’	literal	0
‘When is the trial?’	literal	0
‘It's not arranged yet.	literal	0
But I have tried to talk to him, to persuade him to say that he thought the askaris were going to shoot him or that it was a misunderstanding, but he refuse absolutely to excuse himself.’	metaphorical	1
‘I'll talk to him.	metaphorical	1
I'll talk to the DC.	metaphorical	1
I heard about the lion hunt.	metaphorical	1
Sounds a bit of a balls-up.’	metaphorical	1
‘A balls-up?	literal	0
It was worse than a balls-up.	literal	0
It was a  disaster.	literal	0
His brother was killed.	literal	0
All for a film.	literal	0
And that bastard, un vrai salaud— do you speak French?— Leavitt walked away very happy.’	metaphorical	1
‘He was the producer?’	literal	0
‘He was an exploiter.	literal	0
He did n't care about the Masai.	metaphorical	1
He wanted blood, any blood.	literal	0
Lions, Masai, all equal.’	literal	0
‘Why do you think he did it?	literal	0
The moran, I mean?’	literal	0
‘I do n't know.’	literal	0
There is a pause.	literal	0
‘Shall we take some coffee now?’	metaphorical	1
Claudia summons her servant who brings a coffee pot.	literal	0
‘I'll go and see him tomorrow.	literal	0
Do n't worry.’	metaphorical	1
The jail at Ngiro Narok.	literal	0
It is a small police post with cells at the back.	metaphorical	1
In front of the building is a row of white-painted stones and some cactus-like sisal plants forming a circle around a patch of grass.	literal	0
In the middle of the grass is a flagpole from which the Union Jack hangs.	literal	0
A car pulls up outside.	literal	0
An askari salutes as Fairfax steps out of the car in uniform.	literal	0
He enters the building.	literal	0
A young white policeman appears from his office reluctantly.	literal	0
He straightens up and salutes Fairfax.	literal	0
‘Sorry, Major.	literal	0
I'm Sergeant Jeavons, sir.’	literal	0
‘Major Fairfax.	literal	0
I want to talk to the Masai man you are holding.	metaphorical	1
I have the papers.’	literal	0
‘Are you the defence, sir?’	metaphorical	1
‘No, I'm here to make a report to the governor.’	metaphorical	1
The sergeant's face is elaborately composed.	metaphorical	1
In a bare, mud-walled cell, sitting on the floor, is Tepilit.	metaphorical	1
He does not appear to be disheartened.	literal	0
He looks at Fairfax without fear.	metaphorical	1
From behind the sergeant, an askari shouts at Tepilit.	metaphorical	1
‘Stand up man.	literal	0
Attention.’ 	literal	0
Fairfax speaks to Tepilit in Maa.	metaphorical	1
‘I hope you are well, Tepilit ole Saibol.’	literal	0
Then he turns to the policeman:‘That's fine, sergeant.	metaphorical	1
You may leave me here.’	literal	0
Fairfax shakes hands with Tepilit and sits on small stool.	literal	0
Tepilit squats on the floor.	literal	0
‘How are you?’	literal	0
‘I am fine.’	metaphorical	1
‘What age group are you?’	literal	0
‘Botorok.’	literal	0
‘Is your father the laibon?’	literal	0
‘Yes.	literal	0
He is descended from Mbatian.’	metaphorical	1
‘You have killed a lion.’	literal	0
‘Hooh.	literal	0
I am praised because I held it by the tail.’	literal	0
‘Does your father have many cattle?’	literal	0
‘We are owners of many cattle.’	literal	0
‘I am happy.	literal	0
Do you know me?’	literal	0
‘You are the friend of Claudia from the government.‘	metaphorical	1
‘I am a friend of Claudia.	literal	0
I am a soldier.	literal	0
At the moment, as you know, the white people and their friends are fighting with the Germans.	metaphorical	1
This is a very big war.’	metaphorical	1
‘Our people also fought the Germans.’	literal	0
‘Your people fought very bravely.’	literal	0
‘The Masai are brave.’	literal	0
‘We know this.	metaphorical	1
We honour the Masai above all people.’	metaphorical	1
‘What do you want to discuss?’	literal	0
‘I am here because I was asked to come by Claudia.	literal	0
She wants me to talk to you.’	metaphorical	1
‘There is no need.	literal	0
I have told her everything that happened.’	literal	0
‘She is unhappy.	literal	0
She does not want you to be tried by the government.’	literal	0
‘We are betrothed.	literal	0
She is my little heifer.’	metaphorical	1
Fairfax is stunned.	metaphorical	1
It takes him a moment to regain his composure.	metaphorical	1
‘You are going to be married?’	literal	0
‘She must first ask her father who lives far away.’ 	literal	0
‘Do you realize what will happen to you if you are tried?’	metaphorical	1
Tepilit makes a gesture by placing his hand to his throat and cupping it.	metaphorical	1
‘I ca n't see any point in that.	metaphorical	1
When you killed the district officer it was an accident.’	literal	0
‘I killed him on purpose.’	metaphorical	1
‘What I want to say is this, there was a misunderstanding.	metaphorical	1
I will tell the government.	literal	0
You thought the Nandi, the fat belly, wanted the askaris to shoot you.’	literal	0
‘No.	literal	0
I did not.	literal	0
The white man told the askaris to take my animal after I had offered to exchange it.	literal	0
He took my best animal, even though I offered two in its place.	metaphorical	1
That is why I killed him.	metaphorical	1
And now my family have offered forty-nine cattle to his family, but the government will not take them to give to his family in England.’	metaphorical	1
‘White men have different customs.’	metaphorical	1
‘They do n't like cattle.’	literal	0
‘Some like cattle.	literal	0
I have many cattle on my farm.’	literal	0
‘Are they milk cattle living in a house as I have heard?’	literal	0
‘Not all.	literal	0
Many are Masai cattle.	literal	0
Tepilit ole Saibol, I have a heavy burden.	metaphorical	1
Only you can help me.	literal	0
I have to talk to the governor.	metaphorical	1
I have to explain to him what happened.	metaphorical	1
The Nandi man has run away, frightened.	literal	0
I can say to the governor that you misunderstood the order and tried to defend yourself.	metaphorical	1
Not the district officer's order, but the translator's who spoke too fast without proper consideration, as Nandi people do, and the askaris pointed their guns at you.	metaphorical	1
You threw the spear wildly.	literal	0
Unfortunately the district officer stepped forward.	literal	0
If I tell him that they will fine you.	metaphorical	1
‘Many of my people saw me.	literal	0
They know that I killed him on purpose because he took my best animal.’	metaphorical	1
‘If you say that at your trial, they will kill you.’	metaphorical	1
‘I have offered cattle to his family.	metaphorical	1
I can do no more.’	literal	0
Fairfax stands up.	literal	0
‘Think about what I said.	metaphorical	1
I will come back.’ 	literal	0
‘Go in peace.’	metaphorical	1
‘Please God.’	literal	0
Tepilit does not stand up.	literal	0
He seems content.	literal	0
The sergeant meets Fairfax outside the cell.	literal	0
‘All right, sir?’	literal	0
‘Not really.	literal	0
Has he made a statement?’	metaphorical	1
‘Yes, sir.	literal	0
He admits killing the DO.	metaphorical	1
No excuses.’	literal	0
‘Can I read his statement?’	literal	0
‘I'm afraid it's gone off to the High Court, sir.’	metaphorical	1
‘You have n't got a copy here?’	literal	0
‘We have n't had any carbon paper for two years, sir.’	literal	0
‘Was it taken down by a policeman?’	metaphorical	1
‘Yes, sir.	literal	0
By me, sir.’	literal	0
‘Do you speak Masai?’	literal	0
‘No, sir, but we got the Larusa translator in.	literal	0
He's the official police translator, sir.	literal	0
We read it back to the man twice.	metaphorical	1
It took me most of a whole day, sir.’	metaphorical	1
In the cell Tepilit sits motionless on the floor.	literal	0
At Claudia's camp it is almost evening.	literal	0
The light in the sky is there by courtesy of the vanished sun, but the tops of the mountains are still golden, as though honey had been poured lightly over them.	metaphorical	1
Fairfax's car appears, the lights hopping and bouncing down the track.	metaphorical	1
Claudia rises.	literal	0
Fairfax steps out of the car.	literal	0
Claudia comes to greet him and kisses him lightly on both cheeks.	literal	0
‘How was he?’	literal	0
‘Stubborn.’	literal	0
‘He would not agree?’	literal	0
‘No.‘	literal	0
‘Would you like something to drink?’	literal	0
They are approaching the fire.	literal	0
Fairfax stops. 	literal	0
‘He told me you two were pakiteng, little heifers.’	metaphorical	1
‘It's true.	metaphorical	1
I did n't know what it meant.	metaphorical	1
I did not take it seriously.’	metaphorical	1
‘Did you accept any gifts?’	literal	0
‘He was very sick after the lion got him and he gave me his necklace.	literal	0
He was in a fever.	metaphorical	1
I had no idea he wanted me to marry him when he has his head shaved.’	metaphorical	1
‘What a balls-up.	literal	0
Claudia, the problem is that one Masai, cruel as this may sound, is not considered very important.	metaphorical	1
I have flown my plane with cadged army fuel six hundred miles.	literal	0
I am supposed to be at GHQ.	literal	0
They wo n't hold up proceedings while we talk to him.	metaphorical	1
I've only got until tomorrow.’	metaphorical	1
‘Please, Tom.’	literal	0
She touches his arm.	literal	0
‘Please, Tom.	literal	0
It is completely crazy.	literal	0
There's a war, the Germans are trying to kill every Jew in the world and you are going to hang one Masai because of a misunderstanding.’	literal	0
‘There's no misunderstanding, unfortunately.	literal	0
He seems determined to die.’	literal	0
‘Determined to die.	literal	0
Can you talk to his family?’	metaphorical	1
‘I will try.	literal	0
I will also get the translation of his evidence.	literal	0
Maybe I can put some doubts into the governor's mind about its admissibility.’	metaphorical	1
A boma near Ol Doinyo Lengai.	literal	0
Fairfax and Claudia are meeting the Masai.	literal	0
They are sitting on stools in the middle of the cattle enclosure talking to Tepilit's father, Sentue.	metaphorical	1
Around them graceful Masai women in long leather skirts are sweeping the boma and plastering the huts with cow dung.	literal	0
In the distance we can hear cowbells.	metaphorical	1
Sentue is a grand, dignified figure of about sixty-five.	metaphorical	1
He is wearing a blue tunic and around his shoulders is a fur cloak made of the skins of the hyrax.	literal	0
In his hands he holds a snuff box, shaped like a small quiver, and a thin stick.	literal	0
Two warriors, one of whom is Saibol, Tepilit's younger brother, stand at a  distance.	literal	0
Sentue is speaking.	literal	0
It is clear that he has been speaking for some time.	metaphorical	1
‘We have many problems with the government.	metaphorical	1
They want to take our cows to pay for the war.	literal	0
We give them our cows.	literal	0
Every time they collect our cows, they promise to give us something in return, but the next time ask for more cows.	metaphorical	1
Our cows are our life.	literal	0
I am a rich man.	literal	0
I have many cows and many children.	literal	0
I have offered many cows to pay this man's family.	metaphorical	1
But the government wants to take away my son also.	metaphorical	1
Why do they do this?’	metaphorical	1
This is the way our law is.	metaphorical	1
You can not kill a man deliberately.’	literal	0
‘If you have been reasonable, if you are offering your own wealth, two cows instead of one, and he will not listen, if he thinks you are a small man and will not listen to your suggestions, why not?	metaphorical	1
You must kill him.’	literal	0
‘You ca n't kill a white man in this way.’	metaphorical	1
‘A white man has blood, red blood also.’	literal	0
‘The white man has blood.	literal	0
That is true.	metaphorical	1
But the white man does not believe that cattle are payment for taking someone's life.’	metaphorical	1
The Masai, Sentue, finds this hard to believe.	metaphorical	1
He turns his old head wearily, as if to indicate to his family the kind of people he has to deal with these days.	metaphorical	1
Claudia speaks:‘Your son must say it was an accident.	literal	0
Major Fairfax will speak to the government.’	metaphorical	1
‘I told my son only trouble could come from being your pakiteng.’	metaphorical	1
The old man says this without rancour.	metaphorical	1
It is, in his mind‘a fact.	metaphorical	1
Claudia is upset.	literal	0
She touches Fairfax's arm for support.	metaphorical	1
Fairfax shouts:‘You are a stupid man.	literal	0
This woman has come from far away to write about your people.	metaphorical	1
She did not understand what your son wanted from her.	metaphorical	1
Why does he want to marry a white woman?	literal	0
Does he think she will spend the rest of her life milking his cows and goats?	metaphorical	1
Do n't be stupid.’ 	literal	0
Sentue takes a few moments to reply.	metaphorical	1
‘There is nothing wrong with milking cows and goats.’	metaphorical	1
Claudia interrupts.	literal	0
‘Ole Sentue, I agree with you.	metaphorical	1
I have to go to my country to see my father.	literal	0
I am sure he would wish me to marry with someone in our tribe.	metaphorical	1
But in any case I can not marry your son.	metaphorical	1
In our country to exchange gifts does not mean the same thing.	metaphorical	1
I was a stupid woman.	literal	0
I did not understand.’	literal	0
‘Because you have come here my son is going to be killed.	literal	0
Hanged like a chicken by his neck, in town.’	metaphorical	1
‘No, no, please.	literal	0
Major Fairfax will help him.	literal	0
But he must help himself.’	literal	0
She is weeping.	literal	0
Fairfax approaches very close to the laibon, between them.	literal	0
The laibon speaks to Claudia, ignoring him.	metaphorical	1
‘How can Fahfakhs save him?	literal	0
Your people do not believe it is right to offer cows to his family.	metaphorical	1
Fahfakhs said that.	metaphorical	1
They want to kill him.	literal	0
He did nothing to them, but they want to kill him.	metaphorical	1
I have looked at the stones.	literal	0
They will kill him.’	literal	0
Fairfax grasps the old man by his wrist.	literal	0
‘Laibon, great-grandson of Mbatian, you must think again.	literal	0
The white people are having a war with the Germans.	metaphorical	1
The Masai have been good friends.	literal	0
The government will help your son, but he must not say that he killed the white man on purpose.	metaphorical	1
Ole Sentue Simel, you must speak to your son.’	metaphorical	1
The laibon simply looks down at the floor of the boma.	literal	0
He is not prepared to discuss this dishonourable argument.	metaphorical	1
His face is adamantine.	literal	0
Claudia rises.	literal	0
She offers her hand in the Masai manner, her head bowed.	metaphorical	1
‘Stay in peace.	metaphorical	1
Tom, we must go.’	literal	0
‘Go in peace.’	metaphorical	1
They leave the boma.	literal	0
The laibon stands to watch them go.	literal	0
They walk together towards their car.	literal	0
There are tears in Claudia's eyes.	literal	0
She turns to Fairfax.	literal	0
‘He will not talk to his son.’	metaphorical	1
He strides stiffly and angrily. 	literal	0
‘Claudia, you are supposed to understand them.	literal	0
What can he tell him?	literal	0
Can he say to him,‘You must stop being a Masai.	metaphorical	1
You must tell lies like the muzungus’?	literal	0
I will try to get him off.	metaphorical	1
But I'm not so sure now if it's possible.’	literal	0
‘You must do it,’ Tom.	literal	0
My work here will be finished if he is hanged.	literal	0
I ca n't support it.	metaphorical	1
It's too terrible.’	literal	0
They climb into the car and set off.	literal	0
Behind them, Ol Doinyo Lengai is catching the late afternoon sunlight.	metaphorical	1
They drive down into a dry watercourse and are surrounded by hundreds of cattle returning from their grazing, driven by children and young warriors.	literal	0
They cut the engine to allow the animals to pass undisturbed.	metaphorical	1
Claudia sits with her eyes downcast.	literal	0
A child greets her, but a young warrior strikes the child with a stick.	literal	0
‘My heart is breaking,’ she says.	metaphorical	1
Fairfax turns to her.	literal	0
Her face is shaded from him in the failing light.	metaphorical	1
‘I will do what I can, I promise.’	literal	0
She kisses Fairfax.	literal	0
They sit in the dust of the vanished cattle.	literal	0
‘Claudia, you are beautiful.	literal	0
You look so beautiful.	literal	0
I ca n't bear it that you are unhappy.	metaphorical	1
Did you love him?	literal	0
I have to ask.’	literal	0
‘You know, that is an impossible question.	metaphorical	1
In one way I loved them all.	metaphorical	1
I have lived here for nearly five years.	literal	0
Sometimes for many months I was the only white person for hundreds of miles.	literal	0
I was very grateful to him.	metaphorical	1
I was guilty because he was nearly killed.	literal	0
Another man was killed in the ridiculous filming.	metaphorical	1
I believed I owed him some debt.	literal	0
That boy will do anything for me, even up to getting himself killed by a lion.	metaphorical	1
So I loved him.	literal	0
Yes, I loved him, but I loved him in my Masai self.	metaphorical	1
Do you understand me?	literal	0
Do you know what my professor said?	literal	0
He said that the most important thing in the world, I mean our world, is to live la vraie vie.	metaphorical	1
I believed I was the first anthropologist in France to understand what this means.	metaphorical	1
I was trying to live the real Masai life.’ 	literal	0
‘Is that possible?’	metaphorical	1
‘Obviously not.	literal	0
But at least I was not trying to stand completely outside this life with my little notebook.	metaphorical	1
I ca n't leave this district with one man hanged and another killed and somehow because of me.	metaphorical	1
I ca n't.	literal	0
My life would be finished.	metaphorical	1
You have to help me, Tom.’ 	literal	0
3.	literal	0
Steady currents	metaphorical	1
3.1.	literal	0
The basic equations	literal	0
IN this chapter we shall be concerned with phenomena in which the main role is played by the current of charged particles.	metaphorical	1
All our variables can be functions of space but are independent of time.	metaphorical	1
It is easy to present the relevant equations; we have all of eqns(1.1)-(1.7) but have to substitute a/at= O, yielding[formula].	metaphorical	1
There is a difficulty with eqn(3.6).	metaphorical	1
It is correct for most of the chapter with[formula] taken as a constant but breaks down for ferromagnetic materials, which will be discussed in Section 3.11.	metaphorical	1
All the other equations are all right but will not necessarily provide the simplest starting point for solving a given problem.	metaphorical	1
We shall, therefore, introduce a number of alternative formulations.	metaphorical	1
First, we could search for some analogue of the potential function which proved so useful in electrostatics.	metaphorical	1
We found there that by choosing a scalar function in the form[formula] we could automatically satisfy the other equation for the electric field strength,[formula].	metaphorical	1
Can we do the same thing for the magnetic quantities?	metaphorical	1
No, but we can do a similar thing.	metaphorical	1
Since it is the equation[formula] that needs to be satisfied, we should choose the potential as a vector(called, not without logic, the vector potential), defined by the equation[formula].	metaphorical	1
 Substituting the above equation into eqn(3.1) we get[formula], or using the vector relation(eqn(A.6)) we obtain the modified form[formula].	metaphorical	1
This equation can be further simplified to[formula] by choosing(in the physicist's jargon this is called choosing the gauge)[formula].	metaphorical	1
Can we do that?	metaphorical	1
One ca n't usually assign some arbitrary value to the divergence of a vector function.	metaphorical	1
In the present case, however, we do have some freedom of choice.	metaphorical	1
The definition of A by eqn(3.8) is not unique.	literal	0
If we add to A the gradient of a scalar function, the resulting vector A' still gives the same magnetic field because[formula].	metaphorical	1
Hence a suitable choice of will ensure that[formula].	metaphorical	1
So we are left with eqn(3.11).	metaphorical	1
If the current density is specified, eqn(3.11) will provide the solution for A from which B can be determined.	metaphorical	1
How can we find a solution for A?	metaphorical	1
There is nothing easier.	literal	0
We only need to remember the differential equation for the scalar potential[formula](eqn(2.12)) and its solution in the form of eqn(2.24).	metaphorical	1
By analogy the general solution of eqn(3.11) is[formula].	metaphorical	1
A simple integration will yield A if J is given.	metaphorical	1
We shall go through a number of examples later.	metaphorical	1
For the moment let us use the above expression for deriving Biot-Savart's law.	metaphorical	1
First we shall assume that the current density is confined to a thin wire in which case the integration variable may be changed to[formula], where S is a vector normal to the cross-section,[formula] is the area of the cross-section, and dI is an elementary vector along the tangent of the wire.	metaphorical	1
Noting further that J.S= I and that I must be constant along the wire we may write eqn(3.15) in the modified form[formula],  whence the magnetic field strength is[formula].	metaphorical	1
We have to stop here for a moment to sort out the coordinates.	metaphorical	1
As may be seen in Fig. 3.1 the coordinates of the wire element are x', y', z', whereas the coordinates of the point where we wish to determine the magnetic field are  set of coordinates.	metaphorical	1
Thus the curl operates on the coordinates of P but not on those of dl leading to[formula] where ir is the unit vector in the direction r and we have made use of the vector relation(A3) in the Appendix.	metaphorical	1
This is Biot-Savart's law derived directly from Maxwell's equations.	metaphorical	1
Are there any other ways of determining the magnetic field?	metaphorical	1
Well, one can use eqn(3.1) as it is, but very often one is better off by using its integral form that can be obtained by integrating both sides of eqn(3.1) over a surface[formula].	metaphorical	1
By using Stokes' theorem for the left-hand-side and recognizing that the integral of the current density gives the current, the above equation reduces to[formula], where the line integration is along the curve C enclosing the surface.	metaphorical	1
The positive sense of the integration path is defined relative to the positive current direction according to the usual right-hand convention.	metaphorical	1
Equation 3.21) is known as Ampère's law.	metaphorical	1
 We have now a number of equations describing the same thing.	metaphorical	1
Which equation should we use in a practical case, the equation for the vector potential, Ampère's law, Biot-Savart's law, or attack directly Maxwell's equations?	metaphorical	1
It's hard to tell.	metaphorical	1
Experience with practical calculations helps, but even after years of work one usually remains this side of infallibility.	metaphorical	1
I regret to say that there are no general guidelines available.	metaphorical	1
If one manages to find the simplest method at the first attempt that can mostly be attributed to good luck.	metaphorical	1
Can we claim then that the vector potential is as useful as its scalar counterpart in electrostatics?	metaphorical	1
For computational purposes the answer is an unambiguous no.	literal	0
It is always laborious to find the components of a vector, so we are not much better off with A than with H or B. It turns out however that A is a more basic quantity of physics than B. Since B is given by the curl of A it is possible that A is finite while its curl is zero.	metaphorical	1
Interestingly, under these conditions A has an effect on certain quantum-mechanical phenomena	metaphorical	1
It would be unfair both to the vector potential and to quantum mechanics to say that none of those formulations have engineering applications(in fact the most sensitive magnetometer built to date is based on that kind of theory), but by and large engineers would n't lose much sleep if the use of A were banned with immediate effect.	metaphorical	1
The vector potential is not a popular variable among engineers, maybe because it is not directly measurable.	metaphorical	1
There are no instruments capable to measure the magnitude or direction of A.	metaphorical	1
In my opinion A is a useful thing if used with moderation.	metaphorical	1
It helped us to derive Biot-Savart's law, it will come handy later in solving certain radiation problems, and it often leads to nice formulae, e.g. for the magnetic flux crossing a surface, defined as[formula] that may be rewritten in terms of the vector potential as follows:[formula] where C is the curve enclosing the surface.	metaphorical	1
We have now collected a good number of formulae which will serve us well in the following sections.	metaphorical	1
Before going on, just a few words about the classification of steady currents.	metaphorical	1
It may be roughly divided into two parts: magnetostatics and the rest.	metaphorical	1
We shall discuss the rest first(Sections 3.2–3.5), and that will give us some idea of the relative significance of electric and magnetic fields.	metaphorical	1
Sections 3.6–3.16 are concerned with magnetostatics, where electric fields are assumed to be zero and the interrelationship of J, H, and B are studied.	metaphorical	1
Since we have so many variables, and since in each physical configuration only some of them appear, we will record(just for this chapter) the non-zero variables in each section heading. 	metaphorical	1
3.2.	literal	0
The defocusing of an electron beam(J, E, D, p, H, B)	metaphorical	1
We have so far talked about positive and negative charges, about point charges, and distributed charge.	metaphorical	1
I shall now introduce the concept of an elementary charge, 1.6× 10-19 C, carried by an elementary particle called the electron.	metaphorical	1
This is not a necessity.	metaphorical	1
It is possible to study electromagnetic theory without ever mentioning the word electron, but since it has become such a household word and is used so often we can just as well make use of it.	metaphorical	1
In the present section we shall consider a cylindrical electron beam of radius a in which the charge density is uniform(p= Po) and all electrons travel with velocity v.	metaphorical	1
We are not going to enquire into the details how such beams can be produced(it belongs to the subject of physical electronics); we shall accept the fact that the beam exists and will try to work out the forces on the outermost electrons.	metaphorical	1
There is now cylindrical symmetry and a net charge per unit length[formula], yielding for the radial component of the electric field[formula].	metaphorical	1
The magnetic field may be obtained from Ampère's law(eqn(3.21)) as follows[formula], where the line integral is taken over the circle of radius a(Fig. 3.2), I is the total current of the beam and[formula] is the azimuthal component of the magnetic field in the cylindrical coordinate system specified by[formula].	metaphorical	1
From eqn(3.26) we get[formula].	metaphorical	1
The electric force on an electron of charge e travelling at the edge of the beam(R= a) is   it is in the radial direction pointing outwards.	metaphorical	1
The magnetic force is perpendicular both to the direction of motion(+z axis) and the direction of magnetic field([formula] direction).	metaphorical	1
The vectorial product v X B gives an inward force in the radial direction.	metaphorical	1
Hence the net force on the electron is[formula].	metaphorical	1
Noting that[formula] and anticipating the relationship[formula] to be derived in Section 5.7, we get the following formula for the force[formula], where c is the velocity of light.	metaphorical	1
It may be seen from the above equation that the magnetic force is negligible in comparison with the electric force unless the velocity of the electron approaches the velocity of light.	metaphorical	1
Thus the conclusion is that, owing to the repulsive forces between the electrons, a cylindrical electron beam is unstable.	metaphorical	1
Using a technical term borrowed from electron optics we could say that the electron beam gets defocused.	metaphorical	1
The other conclusion(as far as it is permissible to generalize from a single example) is more important in principle.	metaphorical	1
It is concerned with the relative magnitudes of electric and magnetic forces.	metaphorical	1
Since charged particles rarely travel close to the velocity of light we may conclude that the magnetic forces are by orders of magnitude smaller than the electric forces.	metaphorical	1
Why is it then that we have no difficulties in practice in observing magnetic fields?	metaphorical	1
The reason is, of course, that there are two kinds of electric charges and their effect usually cancels, so the small magnetic field has a chance of getting observed.	metaphorical	1
And that brings us to the ext example.	metaphorical	1
3.3 Pinch effect(J, H, B)	metaphorical	1
In contrast to our previous example we shall now investigate a cylindrical beam consisting of two kinds of charge carriers: negative electrons and some positive particles, which I do not wish to be more precise about at the moment.	metaphorical	1
We shall assume that the two kinds of particles have equal densities and move in opposite directions.	metaphorical	1
As a result there is no net space charge and  hence no electric field.	metaphorical	1
The currents, on the other hand, do not cancel because they represent opposite charges moving in opposite directions(remember, minus one times minus one is equal to plus one).	metaphorical	1
The magnetic field strength is given again by eqn(3.27); we only need to substitute for the current In+ Ip where the subscripts n and p refer to negative and positive particles respectively.	metaphorical	1
Hence the magnetic force on the electron at the edge of the beam(at R= a) is[formula], and on the positive particle is[formula].	metaphorical	1
Note that the force is inwards, and in the same direction for both particles.	metaphorical	1
Let us distinguish two cases.	literal	0
Both particles are mobile	literal	0
In that case both of them will move inwards under the effect of magnetic force.	metaphorical	1
But if the diameter of the beam is reduced, eqns(3.33) and(3.34) tell us that the forces are even larger.	metaphorical	1
What happens then?	metaphorical	1
If everything was uniform then the beam diameter would go on decreasing.	metaphorical	1
In practice however the beam is not uniform and does not possess perfect cylindrical symmetry.	metaphorical	1
Under these conditions the motion of the particles is fairly complicated, and of course our model is unable to predict the detailed behaviour of the particles.	metaphorical	1
Nevertheless a few qualitative conclusions may be drawn without doing any further mathematics.	metaphorical	1
If the cross-section happens to be smaller at a certain place, then the forces are larger there than at the neighbouring cross-sections, so the beam will be further constricted, etc., leading to the so-called sausage instability(Fig. 3.3(a)).	metaphorical	1
If the magnetic field happens to be larger at one side than at the other side, then the beam will be deflected towards the weaker field which makes the field even weaker, etc., leading to the so-called kink instability(Fig. 3.3(b)).	metaphorical	1
The positive particle is immobile	metaphorical	1
In practice this means that the positive ions are part of the crystal lattice.	metaphorical	1
There is then no magnetic force on the ions, only on the electrons.	metaphorical	1
So the electrons want to move inwards but can not because the ions hold them back by virtue of their electrostatic attraction.	metaphorical	1
Naturally, if the ions attract the electrons the converse is true as well, i.e. owing to the magnetic force on the electrons, there is also an inward force upon the ions.	metaphorical	1
So the whole crystal  structure tries to contract or in other words the material is under pressure(see Example 3.2).	metaphorical	1
In any practical situation this pressure is small and can be neglected when calculating the forces on current- carrying conductors.	metaphorical	1
3.4.	literal	0
Flow patterns and Ohm's law(J, E, D)	metaphorical	1
Up to now we have not enquired into the question of how the current arose.	metaphorical	1
We just assumed that certain charge carriers moved with certain velocities.	metaphorical	1
Now we shall say that in a class of materials the current density at any point is proportional to the electric field; in mathematical form[formula], where[formula] is the conductivity of the material.	metaphorical	1
The above equation is spite of its utmost simplicity represents an extremely good guess.	metaphorical	1
It is valid for nearly all materials up to quite high electric fields.	metaphorical	1
Will there be a magnetic field?	metaphorical	1
Yes, of course, whenever there is a current there is a magnetic field as well.	metaphorical	1
But the effect of the magnetic field upon the motion of the electrons is nearly always negligible(one exception causing the pinch effect is mentioned in the previous section).	metaphorical	1
Thus we may safely ignore the magnetic field when determining the lines of current flow.	metaphorical	1
We are then left with only one equation[formula]  or[formula] or[formula], depending on our preference.	metaphorical	1
Eqn(3.38) tells us that there is some analogy(see Example 3.3) with the electrostatic case treated in Chapter 2.	metaphorical	1
We may, in fact, reinterpret any of the diagrams of Figs(2.25)-(2.31) by assuming that the whole space is filled with a material of conductivity[formula] and the field lines are now the lines of current flow as well.	metaphorical	1
Is the analogy perfect?	literal	0
Not really, because(1) as current flows there is some potential drop in the electrode itself,(2) zero conductivity for part of the space can not be electrostatically modelled since there are no dielectrics with Er= 0, and(3) when current flows through two materials of different conductivity there is generally a surface charge at the boundary(see Example 3.4).	metaphorical	1
It is not worth discussing any of these complications because one is rarely called upon to work out lines of current in a conductor.	metaphorical	1
We shall rather return to a very simple geometrical configuration for deriving Ohm's law.	metaphorical	1
We shall take a piece of cylindrical material of length l and cross-section S and apply a voltage between the ends.	metaphorical	1
The electric field is then[formula], the current density[formula], and the current[formula].	metaphorical	1
From circuit theory[formula], where R is the resistance of the material.	metaphorical	1
Comparing eqns(3.41) and(3.42) we get[formula].	metaphorical	1
Since[formula] is by definition the resistivity we get the result you learned in school that the electrical resistance is proportional to the resistivity and the length of the sample and inversely proportional to its cross-section.	metaphorical	1
A more general definition of resistance valid for varying cross-sections may be easily arrived at, but it is hardly worth the trouble.	metaphorical	1
The essential  thing is that the relation[formula] is equivalent to Ohm's law.	metaphorical	1
Risking the dismay of circuit engineers some theoreticians do, in fact, refer to eqn(3.35) as Ohm's law.	metaphorical	1
PROLOGUE	literal	0
Post-Impressionism: Royal Academy of Arts, London 1980	literal	0
He signed the Friends' Book in his elegant handwriting: Alexander Wedderburn, January 22nd, 1980.	metaphorical	1
She had said, peremptory as always, that he was to go straight to Room III, where"the miraculous stuff"was to be found.	metaphorical	1
Early.	literal	0
So here he was, a distinguished public man, also an artist of a kind, stepping obediently through Room I(French 1880s) and Room II(British 1880s and 1890s), on a lead grey morning, to the pale grey, classical, quiet place where the bright light shone and sang off pigment so that the phrase, miraculous stuff, seemed merely accurate.	metaphorical	1
On one long wall hung a row of Van Goghs, including an Arles"Poets' Garden"he had n't seen before, but recognised, from small photographs, from charged descriptions in the painter's letters.	metaphorical	1
He sat down and saw a bifurcated path, simmering with gold heat round and under the rising, spreading blue-black-green down- pointing vanes of a great pine, still widening where the frame interrupted its soaring.	metaphorical	1
Two decorous figures advanced, hand-in-hand, under its suspended thickness.	literal	0
And beyond, green grass and geraniums like splashes of blood.	metaphorical	1
Alexander was not worried about whether Frederica would turn up.	metaphorical	1
She was no longer in the habit of being late: her life had schooled her to temporal accuracy, perhaps to being considerate.	metaphorical	1
He himself, at sixty-two, felt, not quite accurately, that he was now too old, too settled, to be put out, by her or by anyone else.	metaphorical	1
He thought with warmth of her certain approach.	metaphorical	1
There had been a pattern, an only too discernible repetition in the events and relationships of his life into which she had ruggedly refused to fit.	metaphorical	1
She had been a nuisance, a threat, a torment and was now a friend.	literal	0
She had suggested that they look at Van Gogh together, setting up another form of repetition, deliberate, contrived and aesthetic.	metaphorical	1
His play, The Yellow Chair, had first been presented in 1957; he did not like to think too closely about it, as he did not like to think too closely about any of his past work.	metaphorical	1
 He stared at the serenely impassioned garden made out of a whirl of yellow brushstrokes, a viridian impasto, a dense mass of furiously feathered lines of blue-green, isolated black pot hooks, the painfully clear orange-red spattering.	metaphorical	1
He had trouble finding an appropriate language for the painter's obsession with the illuminated material world.	metaphorical	1
He would have been lying if he had recorded only the more accessible drama of the painter's electric quarrels with Gauguin in the Yellow House in Arles, the distant necessary brother who supplied paint and love, the severed ear delivered to the whore in the brothel, the asylum fears.	metaphorical	1
At first he had thought that he could write a plain, exact verse with no figurative language, in which a yellow chair was the thing itself, a yellow chair, as a round gold apple was an apple or a sunflower a sunflower.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes he still saw the brushstrokes, as it were, in this naked way, so that his earlier thoughts of this garden had to be undone, the idea of black wings to be stripped from the painted leafage, the vulgar idea of blood splashes washed off the notation of geraniums.	metaphorical	1
But it could n't be done.	literal	0
Language was against him, for a start.	metaphorical	1
Metaphor lay coiled in the name sunflower, which not only turned towards but resembled the sun, the source of light.	metaphorical	1
Van Gogh's idea of things had also been against him.	metaphorical	1
The yellow chair, besides being brushstrokes and pigment, besides being a yellow chair, was one of twelve bought for a company of artists who were to inhabit the Yellow House, the white walls of which should blaze with sunflowers as the windows of Gothic cathedrals blazed with coloured light.	metaphorical	1
Not only metaphor: cultural motif, immanent religion, a faith and a church.	metaphorical	1
One thing always linked to another thing.	metaphorical	1
As the Poets' Garden, a decoration for the bedroom of the"poet Gauguin"was more than it seemed.	literal	0
Some time ago I read an article on Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio and Botticelli.	metaphorical	1
Good Lord! it did make an impression on me, reading the letters of those men.	metaphorical	1
Arles, 1888.	literal	0
And Petrarch lived quite near here in Avignon, and I am seeing the same cypresses and oleanders…	literal	0
There is still a great deal of Greece all through the Tartarin and Daumier part of this queer country, where the good folks have the accent you know; there is a Venus of Arles just as there is a Venus of Lesbos and one still feels the youth of it, in spite of all…	metaphorical	1
But is n't it true, this garden has a fantastic character which  makes you quite able to imagine the poets of the Renaissance strolling among these bushes and over the flowery grass?…	metaphorical	1
The youth of it, Alexander thought.	metaphorical	1
I thought I was world-weary then.	literal	0
In July 1890, two years after writing this, Van Gogh had shot himself inefficiently in the groin, and had died slowly.	metaphorical	1
In 1954 Alexander, a time-obsessed man, had read the centenary edition(1953) of the Letters.	metaphorical	1
He had himself been rising thirty-seven and when The Yellow Chair was put on had passed that age, was older now than Van Gogh, as he had, in the 1940s, realised that he was older than Keats.	metaphorical	1
He had felt, perhaps, briefly, the power of the survivor.	metaphorical	1
What nonsense.	literal	0
The eternal youth of Provence.	metaphorical	1
He thought of thick, fat, hot motorways carving up that land.	metaphorical	1
He turned his attention to the timeless fields of wheat and olives.	metaphorical	1
She made a kind of progress up the Palladian marble stair.	metaphorical	1
A painter stopped to kiss her: a journalist waved.	literal	0
John House, who had organised the exhibition, came almost leaping down the stairs accompanied by a smallish woman in a pine-green tent-like coat.	metaphorical	1
He also kissed Frederica and introduced the woman, fumbling her name, as"a colleague"and Frederica as"Frederica— you must forgive me, I never know what name you re working under, women these days are so protean."	metaphorical	1
Frederica did not attempt to ascertain the fumbled name, having given up interest in stray new people until it was clear that they were of real concern.	metaphorical	1
She assumed wrongly that John House's colleague was an art historian.	metaphorical	1
The colleague looked at Frederica with an apparently absent-minded scanning attention.	metaphorical	1
John House spoke of the history of the gathering of the images, an emptiness here Jacob wrestling the Angel), an unexpected illumination there.	metaphorical	1
Frederica listened attentively; went on and signed the Visitors' Book.	literal	0
Frederica Potter, Radio 3 Critics' Forum.	metaphorical	1
She negotiated a free catalogue.	metaphorical	1
She made her leisurely way towards where she had told Alexander to be.	metaphorical	1
An old woman, armed with a Sound Guide, became quite excited and pulled at the arm of another.	metaphorical	1
"Hey— look at that— Winston Churchill painted that, the…"— carefully—"Cap d'Antibes."	literal	0
Frederica dipped round her to stare: Claude Monet:"Au Cap d'Antibes par vent de mistral".	metaphorical	1
A whirl of blue and rose, for in less formed plungings of water and wind.	literal	0
"To paint,"she remembered from Proust's description of fictive Elstir,"that one does not see what one sees."	literal	0
To paint light and air between ourselves and objects.	literal	0
"I said, dear, Winston Churchill—"The second woman tugged free of the  clutching fingers.	metaphorical	1
"Not to be mentioned in the same breath with…"she said, looking nervously from Frederica to painted signature.	metaphorical	1
The arrested water shone and danced.	metaphorical	1
In the catalogue John House quoted Monet's description of the painted light around the snowy haystacks as an enveloping veil.	metaphorical	1
He also quoted Mallarmé"I think… that there should be only allusion…	literal	0
To name an object is to suppress three-quarters of the enjoyment of the poem, which is created by the gradual pleasure of apprehending it.	metaphorical	1
To suggest it, that is the dream."	metaphorical	1
It was not a view of things with which Frederica was entirely in sympathy: she liked naming names.	metaphorical	1
But she looked briefly down, dazzled by the flowing skin of worked and delicate colour; the blue and rose tourbillons of the mistral on the sea, the prismatically sliced frosty nimbus round the mysterious squat stacks.	metaphorical	1
She scribbled words, notes, in the margin of her catalogue.	metaphorical	1
Daniel bought a ticket, and paid for the hire of a catalogue, he was n't sure why.	literal	0
He had come, he believed, because he needed to discuss certain administrative problems with Frederica.	metaphorical	1
He was aware that she believed he was in need of art.	literal	0
Under his arm he carried a folded newspaper with that day's headline: PEACE MOTHER DIES.	metaphorical	1
He was raw to bad news, more raw as he grew older, which was not perhaps quite what he had expected.	metaphorical	1
He saw and did not see the paintings.	literal	0
There was a field of poppies and corn which reminded him only of small and large, faded and ghostly versions of Van Gogh's"Harvest"which he had seen repeated in endless hospital corridors, waiting rooms, school offices.	metaphorical	1
He had seen these ample fields, as he had seen Cezanne's geometric brown and green undergrowth in more than one mental hospital day room.	literal	0
Odd, he thought, considering that Van Gogh himself had died mad and despairing in such surroundings.	metaphorical	1
Not serene, overexcited, these fields.	metaphorical	1
Daniel's patience with the nervously ill was not what it had been.	metaphorical	1
Although he was fourteen years younger than Alexander, Daniel too was in the habit of thinking of himself as a survivor, a battered and grizzled survivor.	metaphorical	1
Alexander saw her coming towards him.	literal	0
A dozen or so schoolgirls were dutifully filling in xeroxed, hand-written, one-word-answerable questionnaires.	literal	0
Alexander, always a connoisseur of garments, realised that Frederica had changed her style, that the clothes the young creatures were wearing could be described as a parody of the clothes Frederica had worn at their age, and that Frederica's new style was not unrelated to this shift.	metaphorical	1
There she was in a conventional two-piece  suit, fine dark wool, muted geometrical pattern in greens and unexpected straw browns, caught in at the waist— still very thin— to give the effect of a bustle, the skirt long and straight to the knee.	metaphorical	1
She had ruffles(not swashbuckling) at the neck and the small velvet hat could, but did not, support a veil.	literal	0
The pale red hair was in a figure of eight chignon in her neck, reminiscent of one of Toulouse-Lautrec's fine-drawn cafe habituées.	metaphorical	1
Fifties and post-impressionist, thought Alexander, connecting.	metaphorical	1
She came up and kissed him.	metaphorical	1
He remarked on the parody-young.	metaphorical	1
She took the point eagerly.	metaphorical	1
"My dear, I know.	literal	0
Pencil skirts and batwing sweaters and spiky stilettos, tottering with their hard little behinds sticking out, and all that red lipstick.	metaphorical	1
I remember when I thought lipstick had gone forever, a dream of painted excess, as I thought paper taffeta had gone forever, in Cambridge, when we all took to glazed cotton.	metaphorical	1
Do you remember?"	literal	0
"Of course."	literal	0
"Do you remember the eclectic Sixties parodies— when we went to the National Portrait Gallery— everything, from swamis to major-generals and major-domos too.	metaphorical	1
These are such a serious and uniform parody.	metaphorical	1
More and more of the same.	literal	0
More of me."	literal	0
"Lèse-majesté.	literal	0
And you?	literal	0
You have reverted to type?"	metaphorical	1
"Oh, I'm in my element.	metaphorical	1
I understand the Fifties.	literal	0
I could n't do the Forties bit at all, padded shoulders and crêpy things, ugh, and pageboys— I think it must have been purely Oedipal, those were my parents' things, dammit, what I was getting away from.	metaphorical	1
This is my scene."	metaphorical	1
"So it is."	literal	0
"And now I have money."	literal	0
"In our new austerity, you have money."	metaphorical	1
"In our new austerity, I am old enough to have money."	metaphorical	1
They saw Daniel advancing.	literal	0
"Daniel does n't change,"said Alexander.	metaphorical	1
"Sometimes I wish he did,"said Frederica.	literal	0
Daniel did not change.	metaphorical	1
He wore the same black clothes— baggy corduroys, heavy sweater, working-man's jacket— that he had worn through the Sixties and Seventies.	metaphorical	1
Like many hirsute men he had thinned a little on top where once his black fur had been extravagant, but he had a plentiful and prickling black beard, and his body was still compact and very heavy.	metaphorical	1
He looked, in this setting, a little like some painter.	metaphorical	1
He saluted Frederica and Alexander with his rolled  newspaper and said that it was cold outside.	literal	0
Frederica kissed him too, reflecting that he was dressed like a man who smelled dirty, but in fact did n't.	metaphorical	1
Alexander smelled, still, of Old Spice and a sort of agreeable toastiness.	literal	0
His smooth brown hair was as thick as ever but shot now with needles of glittering silver.	metaphorical	1
"We must talk,"said Daniel.	literal	0
"First you must look at the pictures.	literal	0
Take time off."	metaphorical	1
"I keep trying.	literal	0
I went to the King's Carol Service."	literal	0
"Good for you."	literal	0
Frederica glanced shrewdly at him.	metaphorical	1
"Now, look at the pictures."	literal	0
Gauguin's"Man with the Axe".	literal	0
"One for you,"said Frederica to Alexander, still skimming the necessary accompanying print.	metaphorical	1
"Androgynous.	literal	0
John House says.	literal	0
No, Gauguin said.	literal	0
Do you think?"	literal	0
Alexander considered the decorative gold body, itself a repetition of a body on the Parthenon frieze.	metaphorical	1
He saw a blue loincloth, flat breasts, purple sea with coral tracings lying flatly on it.	metaphorical	1
He was unmoved, though the colours were rich and strange.	metaphorical	1
He told Frederica he preferred his androgynes to be more obscured, more veiled, more suggested, and directed her attention to"Still-Life, Fete Gloanec 1888"in which various inanimate objects, two ripe pears, a dense bunch of flowers, swam across a bright red table-top rimmed with a black ellipse.	metaphorical	1
The picture was signed"Madeleine Bernard", and Alexander told Frederica that Gauguin had flirted seriously with that young woman, had characterised her, as was fashionable at the time, as having the desirable, unattainable androgynous perfection, complete sensuality combined with unattainable self-sufficiency.	metaphorical	1
Frederica informed him from the catalogue that the vegetation was supposed to be a jocular portrait by Gauguin of Madeleine, the pears her breasts, the dense flowers her hair.	metaphorical	1
"You could read it another way,"said Alexander, interested now,"you could read the pears as androgynous in themselves, as partly male."	metaphorical	1
"And the hair as other hair,"said Frederica loudly, scandalising a few bystanders, amusing a few more.	literal	0
"You like to cork for your images, do n't you, Alexander?"	metaphorical	1
"It's age,"said Alexander, peaceably, untruthfully.	literal	0
They were beginning to attract a penumbra of gallery-goers, as though they were offering a guided tour.	metaphorical	1
They moved on to the"Olive Pickers".	literal	0
Daniel's mind was elsewhere.	metaphorical	1
He remembered a straight mass of red-gold hair, in cold King's Chapel, more golden than foxy Frederica's, slowly settling onto a collar as the pins released their grip.	metaphorical	1
He saw a mass of freckles— sometimes  melding into sixpenny-sized brown patches of warmth— moving over the hard frame of cheekbones and brow.	metaphorical	1
The sexless voices rose in the cold.	metaphorical	1
"Unto us a Boy is born."	metaphorical	1
"Herod then with wrath was filled."	metaphorical	1
The voices played with the slaughter of the innocents, treble and descant hunting each other, while she bowed her head, unable to sing in tune.	metaphorical	1
The olives had been painted from the asylum at St Rémy in 1889.	metaphorical	1
As for me, I tell you as a friend, I feel impotent when confronted with such nature, for my Northern brains were oppressed by a nightmare in those peaceful spots as I felt one ought to do better things with the foliage.	metaphorical	1
Yet I did not want to leave things alone entirely, without making an effort, but it is restricted to the expression of two things— the cypresses— the olive trees— let others who are better and more powerful than I reveal their symbolic language…	metaphorical	1
Look here, there is another question that comes to mind.	metaphorical	1
Who are the human beings that actually live among the olive, the orange, the lemon orchards?	literal	0
Frederica and Alexander held a discussion of natural supernaturalism.	metaphorical	1
Daniel looked at the pink sky, the twisted trunks, the silvery leaves, the rhythmic earth streaked with yellow ochre, with pink, with pale blue, with red-brown.	metaphorical	1
Olives, Frederica agreed with Alexander, could not recall the Mount of Olives, the Garden of Gethsemane, in the day of Van Gogh the pastor's son, the lay preacher.	metaphorical	1
As the cypresses must always, differently, mean death.	metaphorical	1
Daniel asked, for politeness really, why Van Gogh had been mad, was it just that he was driven?	literal	0
Alexander said that it may have been a form of epilepsy, exacerbated by the atmospheric-electric disturbances of the mistral and the heat.	metaphorical	1
Or you could make a Freudian explanation.	metaphorical	1
He felt guilty towards the child who had not survived, for whom he had been named.	metaphorical	1
He had been born on March 30th 1853.	metaphorical	1
His dead brother, Vincent Van Gogh, had been born on March 30th 1852.	metaphorical	1
He was in flight from his family, his dead alter ego, his uncertain sense of identity.	metaphorical	1
He wrote to Theo,"I hope you are not a"Van Gogh".	metaphorical	1
Essentially I am not a"Van Gogh".	literal	0
I have always looked upon you as Theo Daniel said he could not see the pain Frederica said was in the olives, and Alexander, still lecturing, said that Vincent had objected to paintings of symbolic Christs in Gethsemane by Bernard and his compères, had torn up his own, had  made do with the olives themselves.	metaphorical	1
He told Daniel about the terrible St Rémy painting of the blasted tree, about noir-rouge, and Daniel said that it was odd that these orchards should be all over the walls of other asylums now, to cheer people up.	metaphorical	1
The trees stood under their haloes of pink and green strokes, small flying things, solidified light movements or saccades of the eye, brushstrokes, pigment.	metaphorical	1
Here is a description of a canvas which is in front of me at the moment.	metaphorical	1
A view of the park of the asylum where I am staying; on the right a grey terrace and a side wall of the house.	literal	0
Some deflowered rose bushes, on the left a stretch of the park— red-ochre— the soil scorched by the sun, covered with fallen pine needles.	metaphorical	1
This edge of the park is planted with large pine-trees, whose trunks and branches are red-ochre, the foliage green gloomed over by an admixture of black.	metaphorical	1
These high trees stand out against an evening sky with violet stripes on a yellow ground, which higher up turns into pink, into green.	metaphorical	1
A wall— also red-ochre— shuts off the view, and is topped only by a violet and yellow-ochre hill.	metaphorical	1
Now the nearest tree is an enormous trunk, struck by lightning and sawed-off.	metaphorical	1
But one side branch shoots up very high and lets fall an avalanche of dark green pine needles.	metaphorical	1
This sombre giant— like a defeated proud man— contrasts, when considered in the nature of a living creature, with the pale smile of a last rose on the fading bush in front of him…	metaphorical	1
To Emile Barnard, St Rémy, December 1889.	metaphorical	1
You will realise that this combination of red-ochre, of green gloomed over by grey, the black streaks surrounding the contours, produces something of the sensation of anguish, called"noir-rouge"from which certain of my companions in misfortune frequently suffer	metaphorical	1
I am telling you about this… to remind you that one can try to give an impression of anguish without aiming straight at the historic Garden of Gethsemane	metaphorical	1
Daniel thought about dead Ann Maguire who, like Anna Van Gogh, the Dutch pastor's wife, had named a younger, hopeful child for a dead one.	metaphorical	1
(Though in Van Gogh's case, the names, Theodorus, Vincent, Vincent, Theodorus, appeared and reappeared from generation to generation, the cultural parallels to certain persisting aspects of the family face, a heavy brow, an intense blue eye, a cheek bone, a nostril.)	metaphorical	1
In the churchyard in his last parish a family in the English  1870s had tried to name a son Walter Cornelius Brittain and had buried three, aged five, aged two, aged one month, interspersed by variegated dead daughters, a Jennet, a Marian, an Eva.	metaphorical	1
In August 1976 a car, containing an IRA gunman, possibly already dead, ploughed onto a pavement and killed three of Mrs Maguire's children, Joanne, eight, John, two, Andrew, six weeks, leaving one son, Mark, aged seven.	metaphorical	1
People had been shocked, by numbers as well as by gratuitous death itself, as people will be, and Mrs Maguire's sister and a friend had founded the Peace People, whose brave beginning and sad end will not be chronicled here.	metaphorical	1
Ann Maguire had borne a second Joanne, in New Zealand, from where she had returned, unable to bear cultural transplantation.	metaphorical	1
Although the papers referred to her as the Peace Mother she had not been active in the Peace People.	metaphorical	1
She had brought a case for legal compensation for her dead children's lives and for her own suffering and one of her few recorded public utterances was to call the first offer of compensation"pitiful".	metaphorical	1
The day of the hearing of her second case she had been found dead.	literal	0
Daniel had pieced the story together from the radio:"with throat wounds.	metaphorical	1
Foul play was not suspected,"and from conflicting newspapers.	metaphorical	1
"With hedge-cutters".	literal	0
"With a carving knife".	literal	0
"With an electric carving-knife""by her side".	literal	0
Her motives, the coroner was to say, were"not completely easy to understand".	literal	0
Daniel, who had become a specialist in wild blows of chance, thought he understood some of it.	metaphorical	1
He had not prayed for Ann Maguire.	literal	0
He was not that kind of priest.	literal	0
He had metaphorically shaken a large fist, impotently, at some looming energy-field, and got on with his work, his work.	metaphorical	1
He followed the other two into the dark shadows of the room housing the Low Countries.	metaphorical	1
Nuns ascended and descended a cool grey stair in winged white caps.	metaphorical	1
The Lauriergracht in Amsterdam was gloomed and glittering.	literal	0
Mondriaan's"Evening"was sombre and cloudy.	metaphorical	1
He liked these.	metaphorical	1
Like Vincent, although he was unaware that Vincent had remarked on it, he had"Northern brains"and responded biologically and spiritually to tones of black, donkey-brown, varied greys, touches of white in dark.	metaphorical	1
"One of the most beautiful things done by the painters of this country has been the painting of black which nevertheless has light in it,"Vincent had written from Holland.	metaphorical	1
Xavier Mellery, the painter of the nuns, was described in the catalogue as"creating a light which is the negation of that which  envelops our immediate visual experience of things; it is rather the Interior light of your mind…"	metaphorical	1
Daniel was used to such language; it was his daily, or anyway weekly, pabulum.	metaphorical	1
He knew about the light shining in darkness, and had come, for reasons completely different from Alexander's desire for exactness, specificity, to mistrust figurative language.	metaphorical	1
He never now made a sermon from a metaphor, nor drew analogies: he preached examples, cases, lessons.	metaphorical	1
But he liked the black Dutch paintings: they were, so to speak, on his wavelength.	metaphorical	1
He cornered Frederica.	metaphorical	1
"You said you'd news of Will."	metaphorical	1
"A postcard, yes."	literal	0
"Where this time?"	metaphorical	1
"Kenya.	literal	0
On the way to the Ugandan famine, I think."	literal	0
"Hippie,"said Daniel.	literal	0
"Helping out,"said Frederica.	literal	0
"What use— comparatively— is a chap like that, wi' no training, no medical… no…?	metaphorical	1
Another mouth to feed.	literal	0
It makes me wild."	metaphorical	1
"I think he is often useful, in his way.	metaphorical	1
You judge him so""He judges me.	metaphorical	1
Judging runs in the family."	metaphorical	1
"It does,"said Frederica.	literal	0
"Once,"said Daniel,"I was in Charing Cross Hospital, someone's kid had taken an overdose and died, they pump them out there regular as clockwork but this one's liver could n't take any more.	metaphorical	1
Anyway, there I was, going up this endless corridor, thinking what to do about the mother, who blamed herself— wi' reason mind you, she was one of those soft suckering witch- women, but that made it worse, not better— and there was th' trolley wi' the dead girl on it, sliding by me— sheet right over, porters in those soft theatre boots and floppy plastic bathcaps— and when they'd got past me and were turning i n't door, the first one looked at me from under his plastic frills like, with my own face.	metaphorical	1
I was shocked for a minute.	literal	0
Got all his hair tucked up in that thing, you see— otherwise, he's not so like me, not strikingly so.	metaphorical	1
"Hi,"he said.	literal	0
"Going about your father's business, are you?"	metaphorical	1
So I asked him what he was up to and he said he was going to and fro in the earth and walking up and down in it, and then he pushed th"trolley in, and I went in after, and the mother began her howling and shrieking, and Will said,"Well, I'll walk off and leave you to it."	metaphorical	1
And I said,"Where are you going, then?"	literal	0
And he said,"I told you.	literal	0
To and fro."	literal	0
That was the last I saw of Will."	metaphorical	1
 The nuns ascended the stairs in a perpetual cool silence.	metaphorical	1
"Quoting scripture for his own purposes,"said Daniel.	literal	0
"That was rather funny, I thought,"said Frederica.	metaphorical	1
"Anything on the postcard about coming back?	metaphorical	1
Any plans?"	metaphorical	1
"No."	literal	0
Sometimes she wished Will would not write to her at all, if he would send no messages to Daniel.	metaphorical	1
Sometimes she told herself the postcards, or exercise book scrawls, were messages to Daniel, but one should never, she considered, ignore surface meanings in favour of implications and the damned things were addressed to her, to Frederica.	metaphorical	1
"Oh hell,"she said.	literal	0
"Not to worry,"said Daniel.	literal	0
"I'll push off.	metaphorical	1
I'll see you."	literal	0
"You have n't seen the pictures."	literal	0
"I'm not in the mood."	metaphorical	1
"We were going to have coffee in Fortnum and Mason's."	literal	0
"No, thank you all the same."	literal	0
WEDNESDAY, 12 JANUARY 1966	literal	0
Clare still swapped one night a week off with Stephanie and reported subsequent events to Gilda, who now managed the shoe shop: occasionally she visited Clare for an evening meal.	metaphorical	1
As Clare poured sherry, Gilda asked,‘So how was the BOAC pilot?’	literal	0
‘Tony was the worst yet.’	literal	0
Clare never felt embarrassed discussing sex with Gilda, who could talk about little else.	metaphorical	1
‘He'd read all the sex manuals ever printed.	literal	0
Whipped a porn magazine out of his flight case after the first gin and tonic.	metaphorical	1
He was coldly determined to be a good lover.	metaphorical	1
For me, that was a total turn-off.’	metaphorical	1
‘Porn pictures are a turn-off to most women.	metaphorical	1
Women like words, not pictures,’ Gilda said as she sipped her drink.	literal	0
‘But I'm starting to think that everything's a turn-off for you, doll.	metaphorical	1
You clearly ca n't have sex with fellas you ai n't fond of.	metaphorical	1
I expect you need a chap you know well, someone you feel comfortable with, not these one-nighters.’	metaphorical	1
She swallowed half the glass.	literal	0
‘Now me, I'm the reverse.	metaphorical	1
If I do n't give a damn about‘em, I ai n't anxious, and if I ai n't anxious, then I come easy.’	metaphorical	1
She drained her glass.	literal	0
‘When Tony could n't get me to climax, he wanted to ask another girl over,’ Clare said.	metaphorical	1
‘He automatically assumed that I was a lesbian.’	metaphorical	1
‘That's not what he meant,’ Gilda said.	literal	0
‘Lots of guys find it a turn-on to watch two women making love.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘How very odd.	metaphorical	1
Can you imagine a woman trying to get two men into bed so she could watch them?’	literal	0
‘Forget this guy,’ said Gilda.	metaphorical	1
‘I know what you need, Clare: someone you know and trust, someone who wo n't make you feel anxious.	metaphorical	1
Then you'll relax and it'll happen— then you'll stop being one of them miserable nymphos who hop from man to man, hoping for Mr Right, the man who can satisfy her.’	metaphorical	1
As Gilda held out her glass to be refilled, she added reflectively,‘Although you seem more lonely than horny.	metaphorical	1
Are you looking for sex, or just someone to talk to?	metaphorical	1
You ai n't likely to pick up Prince Charming in a bar.’	metaphorical	1
Clare said,‘I'm not looking for Prince Charming.	metaphorical	1
I do n't want the disorder, the pain, the mess, or the misery of being in love.	metaphorical	1
I just want a short-term relationship, without responsibility.’	metaphorical	1
Gilda laughed.	literal	0
‘So do these fellas you pick up.	metaphorical	1
But I'm not convinced that's right for you.	metaphorical	1
You need a secure situation with someone you can trust, who you know will stick around because he loves you.	metaphorical	1
I'll tell you who you ought to fall in love with, Clare.’	metaphorical	1
‘Who?’	literal	0
‘Yourself.	literal	0
You clearly think that you're a piece of worthless rubbish, and if I pick up those vibes, then so do the blokes.	metaphorical	1
Why not give sex a rest for a bit, and pay a bit of attention to yourself?	metaphorical	1
You never want to make a man the centre of your existence.	metaphorical	1
That place is for you, Clare.’	metaphorical	1
‘I am the centre of my existence,’ Clare sang, as if chanting a psalm, pitching her voice an octave lower, as she pushed Josh to her playgroup the next morning.	metaphorical	1
A man stood on the porch, his hands in the pocket of his beige mackintosh.	literal	0
‘Good morning.	literal	0
Are you a prospective parent?’	literal	0
Clare asked.	literal	0
She felt in her pocket for the key. 	literal	0
‘No.’ said the man.	literal	0
I'm an inspector for the local education authority.’	literal	0
After examining the bathroom, the inspector pointed out that legally one toilet was required for every seven kiddies.	metaphorical	1
Clare said,‘But if each child goes there every two and a half hours, one lavatory is adequate.	metaphorical	1
There is a potty for emergencies.	literal	0
We have never had a problem.’	metaphorical	1
The inspector was not listening.	literal	0
He was making notes on other violations.	metaphorical	1
Half an hour after the inspector left, as if to prove his point, the lavatory refused to flush.	metaphorical	1
The following morning, Clare's playgroup was ordered to close.	metaphorical	1
Two days later, Clare's mind was unexpectedly diverted from her personal problems— no job, no man— when the CND office telephoned to ask her for voluntary evening help: they were organizing another protest after a nuclear accident.	metaphorical	1
Over Spain, an American B-52 bomber carrying an H-bomb had collided in mid-air with another aircraft.	metaphorical	1
The H-bomb, with an explosive capacity of more than a million tons of TNT, had fallen into the Atlantic Ocean off southern Spain.	metaphorical	1
Clare felt cheered to be back among like-minded people, doing something worth while.	metaphorical	1
MONDAY, 14 FEBRUARY 1966	literal	0
Valentine's Day brought two happy events.	metaphorical	1
The radio reported that the missing H-bomb had been located on the Atlantic seabed.	metaphorical	1
And to Clare's delight, she sold the lease of the apartment in which she ran her playgroup— for a profit of twenty-three per cent.	metaphorical	1
Clare felt as if she had won a sweepstake.	metaphorical	1
On the following morning, she bought a portable TV, a warm winter  coat for herself, and new clothes for Josh.	metaphorical	1
She did n't buy any toys for Josh because she had decided to open a toy shop.	metaphorical	1
Two weeks later, Clare bought the short lease of a small shop in the Pimlico Road, close to Mrs Gooden's home.	metaphorical	1
Though there was a lot to do, Clare, busy redecorating the shop and visiting wholesalers to buy stock, still managed to work one evening a week for the Movement.	metaphorical	1
In mid-April, just before her toy shop opened, Clare's weary, amiable, National Health doctor looked up from his desk and said,‘About your vaginal symptoms, Mrs Shapiro.	metaphorical	1
You'd better go to St Stephen's for tests: they're properly equipped to handle this sort of thing.’	metaphorical	1
He seemed uneasy.	literal	0
‘What sort of thing?…	metaphorical	1
Not… cancer?’	literal	0
‘No, gonorrhoea,’ the doctor said apologetically.	literal	0
Clare almost fainted from surprise and anxiety, horror and shame.	metaphorical	1
Then she wept.	literal	0
The doctor refused to give her more sleeping tablets but scribbled a prescription for tranquillizers, which were increasingly prescribed for women like Clare, with symptoms of anxiety in stressful situations such as poverty, divorce, or bereavement; women with marital problems and women who were out of work also found them helpful, although the pills did nothing to resolve the problem responsible for the initial anxiety.	metaphorical	1
Clare, who blushed with shame whenever she thought about it, waited anxiously for the result of her tests at St Stephen's Hospital.	metaphorical	1
The tests were negative.	literal	0
But within a month, she could n't get through the day without tranquillizers; she felt less anxious, calmer.	metaphorical	1
Clare managed to open the Red Rocking Horse by mid-May.	metaphorical	1
At the opening party, an excited three-and-a- half-year-old Josh rode the pretty antique red rocking horse in the shop window. 	metaphorical	1
MONDAY, 15 AUGUST 1966	literal	0
Standing by the swimming pool at Saracen, Miranda beckoned to Adam, who was floating on the water in a transparent blow-up plastic armchair.	metaphorical	1
In a voice of soft persuasion, she said,‘Will you do something for me, Adam?	metaphorical	1
I'm going to learn to fly.	literal	0
I want you to break the news gently to Gran.’	metaphorical	1
‘But you promised your grandmother not to learn to fly,’ Adam objected.	literal	0
‘It was a condition of her gift to you the ten thousand pounds’ capital to start KITS.’	metaphorical	1
I did n't say for ever.	literal	0
I'll pay the money back to her.’	metaphorical	1
Miranda was defiant.	literal	0
‘I've always wanted to fly.	literal	0
I wo n't be held by a promise that was unfairly extracted from me before I legally became an adult.	metaphorical	1
And I get bored with nothing to do on holiday but lie in the sun.’	metaphorical	1
‘When are you starting?’	literal	0
Adam asked, resigned.	literal	0
‘This morning, at the Cannes flying school.	metaphorical	1
They have English instructors.	metaphorical	1
Four hours of instruction a day for two weeks.	literal	0
And of course, this time of year, it's perfect flying weather!’	metaphorical	1
Miranda was triumphant now.	literal	0
‘I've already passed the two written exams.	metaphorical	1
Did law and meteorology last Easter, and now I've finished navigation, radiotelephony, and technical— that was the toughest.’	metaphorical	1
So that's why you're so pale.’	metaphorical	1
Three hours later, two thousand feet above the Mediterranean, Miranda, alert and exultant, sat next to her instructor at the controls of a trainer plane, an ugly little single-engine Rallye which her instructor described as efficient and forgiving: you could do something wrong m a Rallye without getting immediately punished for it.	metaphorical	1
Flying was even better than she had hoped: better than skiing, better than driving a sports car.	literal	0
As the Rallye droned towards the lighthouse on the tip of Cap Camerat,  Miranda felt as if she were breathing the air of the gods.	metaphorical	1
Gently they swooped, turned, and climbed in the azure sky.	metaphorical	1
After they reached two thousand feet, the instructor showed her how to fly level; he then encouraged her to experiment with the stick, manoeuvring the plane m every direction.	metaphorical	1
Miranda felt that the aircraft was an extension of her arms and her fingertips, outspread in flight.	metaphorical	1
Heading west on the return flight path, the instructor said,‘This is the first time I've flown with a pupil and have n't once needed to touch the controls.’	metaphorical	1
Miranda pushed home this advantage.	metaphorical	1
‘Then can I land?’	literal	0
The instructor hesitated, then said,‘Why not?’	literal	0
The girl was clearly a natural flyer.	literal	0
After being given clearance to land, Miranda, following her instructor's directions, started her approach; she throttled back to reduce speed and control her descent as she flew towards the threshold— the point just before she intended to touch down.	metaphorical	1
The plane was now moving at not much above stalling speed.	metaphorical	1
As the Rallye dropped to about thirty feet above the runway, Miranda throttled back completely and held the stick back.	metaphorical	1
The plane seemed to glide forward and land itself.	literal	0
The undemonstrative Miranda flung her arms around the instructor.	metaphorical	1
‘Oh, thank you!	literal	0
Thank you!	literal	0
‘Quite a smooth landing,’ the instructor said approvingly He hesitated, then warned,‘Next time be careful not to land too fast or you'll run out of runway.’	metaphorical	1
This woman was adventurous and ambitious: such pilots did not live long.	metaphorical	1
He added,‘Careful pilots are the ones that survive.	metaphorical	1
A good pilot never takes a risk.’	metaphorical	1
‘The opposite of a good businessman,’ Miranda said, still on a high.	metaphorical	1
‘A businessman has to take risks constantly— and win sixty per cent of the time.’	metaphorical	1
‘In the air, that risk factor would kill you.’ 	metaphorical	1
Nine hundred years earlier, the great hall had been the hub of castle life: wolfhounds ate on floors strewn with rushes; servants slept on straw pallets thrown on the floor.	metaphorical	1
Then, the winter salon did not smell of lilies and expensive leather but of stale, fat, stinking human bodies and animal ordure.	metaphorical	1
Elinor sometimes thought of all the love and the hatred, the treachery and the killing that this hall had undoubtedly seen, when strong men fought hand-to-hand to the death, to protect their women and children.	metaphorical	1
Now the winter salon at Saracen, where Elinor waited for Adam, was not only the coolest but the most impressive room in the château.	literal	0
High arched walls of pale, honey-coloured stone were hung with bluish-green tapestries; around the big stone fireplace, where logs burned in winter, stood sofas covered in the blues and greens of the tapestries; here and there were lamps, flowers, books, and piles of parlour games.	metaphorical	1
‘What's keeping Adam?’	metaphorical	1
Elinor asked Buzz, who was adding up the Scrabble score.	metaphorical	1
‘You said three o'clock.	literal	0
It's only two-thirty,’ Buzz said.	literal	0
‘Ninety-three for you, two hundred and sixty-four for me.	literal	0
That's not a bad score for you, Nell.’	metaphorical	1
Buzz never cheated to let Elinor win: she knew that Elinor would immediately sense this and feel humiliated.	metaphorical	1
After an intensive rehabilitation programme of physiotherapy and speech therapy, Elinor appeared to have completely recovered from her stroke, although she could no longer think of three things at once, which Buzz said was a mercy for the people who had to live with her.	metaphorical	1
Elinor was sometimes at a loss for the right word, or name, and then became impatient with herself; she was often frustrated because she could n't move as swiftly as she did before.	metaphorical	1
At times, she was downhearted and wondered whether she would ever write another book.	metaphorical	1
‘When you want to write, you'll write,’ Buzz would tell her then. 	literal	0
Now Buzz grunted,‘Look what I tore out of the Daily Mail.’	literal	0
She dug into her pocket, unfolded a bit of newspaper, and read, Sportsman Jim Clark today opened a splendidly equipped physical training college at Larkwood in Wiltshire, formerly the family home of the O'Dare family.	metaphorical	1
Lady O'Dare commented,‘I wish them well.’’	literal	0
‘I doubt that.’	metaphorical	1
Elinor peered at the photograph of the new owner, a motor-racing hero, standing with her sister-in-law, Marjorie.	literal	0
The doorbell sounded.	literal	0
‘I'll go,’ Buzz said.	literal	0
‘It's either Adam or the postman.’	literal	0
Buzz returned reading a postcard.	literal	0
‘It's for you, from Sonia Rushleigh…	literal	0
Whoops, I mean Bromley.	literal	0
Who'd have thought them two would marry?	literal	0
She says the Colonel's taken up petit point, and Miss Hawkins is teaching him.	literal	0
Remember her, the schoolmistress?’	literal	0
‘I do indeed,’ said Elinor.	literal	0
‘Frumpy sourpuss!	literal	0
Who's the letter from?’	literal	0
‘Clare.’	literal	0
Buzz held the envelope out to Elinor.	literal	0
Elinor shook her head.	literal	0
‘You open it.’	literal	0
‘It's marked personal.’	literal	0
‘I do n't want to read it, unless she apologizes.’	literal	0
Buzz opened the letter and read it.	literal	0
She shook her head.	literal	0
‘It's just a friendly letter, asking how you are.	metaphorical	1
But reading between the lines, I think Clare needs money.’	metaphorical	1
‘If she took her poor child back to his father and gave her husband a second chance, she would n't need money.’	metaphorical	1
‘How about a bit of generosity?’	metaphorical	1
Buzz said.	literal	0
‘You're a silly, stubborn old woman.	literal	0
And Clare's just as stubborn and just as silly.	literal	0
It would n't have hurt her to say she was sorry.’	metaphorical	1
Elinor looked anxious.	literal	0
‘Do you really think she's short of money, Buzz?	metaphorical	1
I would n't want her to have a rough time.’	metaphorical	1
This remark was overheard by Adam as, in pale blue  shirt and jeans, he sauntered through the door.	metaphorical	1
He said,‘Elinor, you allowed ample provision in the trust for helping Clare— if the trustees consider that help is needed.	metaphorical	1
I'll check on Clare when I get back to London.’	metaphorical	1
He put a pile of papers on a side table.	literal	0
‘There's rather a lot of paperwork here, things that you should be aware of.’	metaphorical	1
‘We've had more paperwork, not less, since the trust took over,’ Buzz said tartly.	metaphorical	1
‘And I tell you frankly that I ca n't follow it, Adam.	metaphorical	1
I thought the trustees were going to manage the business.	literal	0
Elinor should n't be made to wade though pages of paragraphs with no commas in‘em.’	metaphorical	1
‘Of course the trustees manage the business, and they do it very well,’ Adam said.	literal	0
‘And there's no reason for Elinor to see any of this if it tires her.	literal	0
In fact, I'm about to suggest something that would simplify matters.’	metaphorical	1
‘What's that?’	metaphorical	1
Buzz asked.	literal	0
‘I'd like to substitute Paul Littlejohn for myself in the power of attorney that I hold on your behalf, Elinor.	metaphorical	1
I'm trying to reduce the number of business administrators: the fewer there are, the simpler the system and the cheaper it will be.’	metaphorical	1
‘Does that mean that Paul will be legally responsible for Elinor's affairs instead of you, Adam?’	metaphorical	1
‘Yes, but that's only a technicality.	metaphorical	1
Paul will do as I say.	literal	0
And I'd also like you to sign this document, Adam added,‘which absolves me and STG from any further responsibility once Paul Littlejohn has been substituted.’	metaphorical	1
Buzz said,‘But surely…’	literal	0
Smoothly Adam explained,‘The responsibility must clearly rest m only one area.	metaphorical	1
It's in your interests to clarify the situation.	metaphorical	1
It's customary.’	literal	0
‘If you think that's best, Adam dear.’	metaphorical	1
Elinor frowned slightly at Buzz.	metaphorical	1
Adam decided to hold back Miranda's bombshell until later, after Elinor drank her evening glass of champagne. 	metaphorical	1
Just before five o'clock, when the business session had ended and the afternoon was still hot, quiet, and heavy with languor, Buzz left to get some tea.	metaphorical	1
Adam escorted Elinor to the elevator; after taking her to her bedroom, he intended to go to the beach for a swim.	metaphorical	1
In the high-ceilinged kitchen, surrounded by the smells of mint and basil, Buzz whistled‘Roses of Picardy’ with much dramatic warbling as she prepared Elinor's tea.	metaphorical	1
Leaves and yellow blossoms obscured the top of the window, while the bottom was covered by aggressive pink hollyhocks, seemingly determined to fight their way inside.	metaphorical	1
Sylvie, the cook, sat at the big kitchen table by the window, writing a list and shooing pigeons away.	literal	0
The bane of Sylvie's life was the pigeon droppings that littered the windowsill and had to be cleaned up daily.	literal	0
With a shudder, Sylvie refused a cup of tea.	metaphorical	1
Still whistling, Buzz laid the tray.	literal	0
The soporific calm of the drowsy afternoon was shattered by the bell indicator above the kitchen door.	metaphorical	1
Someone was jabbing the bell— non-stop— in Elinor's bedroom.	literal	0
Knowing that Adam was probably in the elevator on his way to the beach, Buzz hurled herself out of the kitchen and ran upstairs.	literal	0
Frantically she tore open the door to Elinor's apartment.	metaphorical	1
In the passage, she stumbled and almost fell, then flung back the door to the bedroom.	literal	0
To her relief, Elinor was not slumped on the floor; deathly white, she clung for support to the silver brocade hangings of her bed.	metaphorical	1
Wordlessly, she pointed above the fireplace.	literal	0
Buzz turned her head to the left, where the portrait of the three sisters hung.	literal	0
At first Buzz saw nothing, but then she gasped in horror. 	metaphorical	1
Each of the three long, creamy necks had been cut horizontally: a small triangle of canvas hung downward from each slashed throat. 	metaphorical	1
18	literal	0
WEDNESDAY, 17 AUGUST 1966	literal	0
In the foyer of the Clanrickard Club, Mike Grant leaned against the wall at the bottom of a double-sided curving staircase.	literal	0
With his hands in the pockets of his dinner jacket, he surveyed the room.	metaphorical	1
It was going to be a good night, in spite of the fact that it was August and a Wednesday.	literal	0
Making sure to appear casual, he carefully watched the men in dinner jackets and the women in full-length décolleté dresses move slowly over the red carpet towards the restaurant at the rear, or climb the staircase to the gaming rooms.	metaphorical	1
Mike noticed a group of heavy gamblers, most of them Greek, move towards the baccarat room, where the Sultan of Rupolei had been losing for the last hour.	metaphorical	1
His attention was also caught by a woman dressed in midnight-blue satin and diamonds; the sister of a Middle-Eastern ruler, she was known as an audacious gambler.	metaphorical	1
He stiffened as he recognized a man move upstairs with a distinctive, boneless saunter: he had better send someone up to check the backgammon room.	metaphorical	1
The club owners, the casinos, and the multinational bookmakers knew which professional gamblers successfully played games that contained an element of skill— such as backgammon and poker- and they preferred to have nothing to do with them; ideally, the house welcomed inexperienced, rich idiots.	metaphorical	1
‘This is certainly a good night to play the odds.’	metaphorical	1
Mike heard a sarcastic voice from behind him.	literal	0
He turned and smiled at Adam.	metaphorical	1
‘Come into my office for a drink.	literal	0
What's up?’ 	metaphorical	1
In Mike's office, furnished with heavily varnished Victorian club furniture.	literal	0
Adam shook his head curtly at the offer of a chair.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm not staying,’ he said.	literal	0
‘I merely wanted to tell you that you've scared the hell out of everyone at Saracen— except me.	metaphorical	1
So kindly curb your theatrical, James Bond streak.	metaphorical	1
I knew immediately what your message meant:‘If you do n't pay up, one slash is all it takes.’’	metaphorical	1
He glared at his brother.	metaphorical	1
‘I thought you were fond of Elinor.	literal	0
I seem to recall that Elinor helped you to buy your first good bike.	metaphorical	1
Why drag her into my problems?	metaphorical	1
You might have given her another stroke.’	metaphorical	1
‘I do n't know what the hell you're talking about, and I ca n't comment until I do.’	metaphorical	1
Mike, his face alert and wary, lit a cigarette.	metaphorical	1
Adam briefly described how the triple portrait had been slashed and added,‘D' you really expect me to believe that you had nothing to do with it?	metaphorical	1
Someone told some cat burglar where to find that picture!’	metaphorical	1
Mike stared at his brother, then slowly said,‘Not me.	literal	0
I agree, it's clearly a warning to pay, but I swear I know nothing about it.	metaphorical	1
It could n't have been the brothers— they'd be even less subtle…’	literal	0
He inhaled deeply.	literal	0
‘Who else do you owe money, Adam, you stupid bastard?’	metaphorical	1
‘No one who'd do anything so bloody childish!	literal	0
How do I stop this bloody nonsense?’	metaphorical	1
‘How many times must I tell you that if you let things go too far, nobody can stop what will undoubtedly happen?	metaphorical	1
Adam,’ Mike went on quietly,‘you've always taken full advantage of anyone who's fond of you.	metaphorical	1
You think you can push me around because you've been doing that since we were in the nursery.	metaphorical	1
You also grew up watching Grandfather's clients literally get away with murder.’	metaphorical	1
He sucked on his cigarette, furiously threw it into the fireplace, shoved his hands in his pockets, and glared at Adam.	metaphorical	1
‘Do you want to be found washed up on the seashore with a few  vital bits missing?	metaphorical	1
Are you so anxious to know what it feels like to have both eyeballs gouged out, one at a time?	metaphorical	1
Do you want to be slowly battered to death, before dying in agony?’	metaphorical	1
‘Of course not, you bastard,’ Adam said.	metaphorical	1
‘I only want to know who slashed that picture if you did n't.’	metaphorical	1
‘Whoever they are— and only you know that— these people are serious.	metaphorical	1
Punters often try to avoid paying.	metaphorical	1
Examples often have to be made.	metaphorical	1
You know that.’	metaphorical	1
Mike started to stride up and down the room.	metaphorical	1
‘Take that fucking urbane look off your face and face reality, Adam.	metaphorical	1
If you lose money, that's tough.	metaphorical	1
But if you do n't pay up, that's insanity.’	metaphorical	1
‘I've had enough of your melodrama,’ Adam snarled.	metaphorical	1
Mike glared at his brother again.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm not exaggerating.	literal	0
Remember that incident when the Sultan's sister had her Rolls stopped, at two in the morning on the Grande Corniche, after leaving the casino?	metaphorical	1
They blew away the chauffeur's head with a machine gun.	metaphorical	1
She was n't touched.	literal	0
She paid all her gambling debts the very next day.	metaphorical	1
And when the story was carefully leaked to the newspapers, quite a lot of other debts were suddenly settled in full.’	metaphorical	1
‘I'm not some goddamned sultan's sister.’	literal	0
‘No, but you also like playing with fire.	metaphorical	1
You never believe that the gods will really let it burn you.	metaphorical	1
You think you're omnipotent— but you are n't.’	literal	0
‘Keep your voice down,’ Adam growled.	metaphorical	1
‘I'll do what I bloody well like in my own office,’ Mike said.	literal	0
‘Do n't you understand?	literal	0
I'm on your side, Adam.	metaphorical	1
You're the only brother I have.’	metaphorical	1
His voice deepened.	metaphorical	1
‘I'm probably more worried about this than you are.	metaphorical	1
If anything happened to you…	metaphorical	1
I'd be left without you.	metaphorical	1
So for God's sake, pay up, you stupid shit!	metaphorical	1
Do n't think you can get away with it just because you've always got away with everything, since you set that nursemaid's apron alight.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘I thought you were too young to remember that,’ Adam said uneasily.	metaphorical	1
He added,‘She should n't have left the matches within reach of a child.’	metaphorical	1
‘She was in hospital for six weeks, and I was the only one who knew it was n't an accident.	literal	0
I knew you wanted to see how far you could go.’	metaphorical	1
‘Let's not argue about something that happened over thirty years ago,’ Adam said finally.	metaphorical	1
‘Can you raise money to help me fend them off?	metaphorical	1
I promise you.	literal	0
within six months I know I'll have no more money problems.	metaphorical	1
Never again.’	literal	0
‘You'll have money problems as long as you gamble, Adam.	metaphorical	1
Annabel was determined to get a grip on herself and do as Scott advised: remember 1965 as the year she stopped having to go to auditions and 1966 as the year in which she blossomed into a successful young New York hostess as she met Andy Warhol, Lenny Bernstein, Baby Jane Holzer, and all the other gossip-columnist fodder.	metaphorical	1
By July, Annabel was a Junior Friend of the Metropolitan Museum, a Friend of the Museum of Modern Art, and a patron of the Bronx Zoo.	metaphorical	1
She also allayed her insecurity with a massive spending spree; each charity dinner required a new ballgown, and each new glittering friend— contacts for Scott— required a glittering party.	metaphorical	1
So the year thus far was a busy one.	metaphorical	1
The Long Road Home	metaphorical	1
CIA HQ Langley	metaphorical	1
Sorge had never been to Langley before.	literal	0
It was not something a Russian expected to do.	literal	0
It was after 9 a.m. when Nowak drove him through the gates, past the guards, and into the vast underground car-park.	metaphorical	1
‘Why Langley?’	literal	0
Sorge had asked him on the way out of Washington.	literal	0
‘They want to show you that they trust you.’	metaphorical	1
‘I do n't expect I'll see much.’	literal	0
Nowak laughed.	literal	0
‘Damn right.	literal	0
We park in the underground car-park, catch a special lift to the fifth floor and walk across the corridor into a special conference room.’	metaphorical	1
‘That's trust?’	metaphorical	1
‘That's trust.’	metaphorical	1
The Executive Director was already in the meeting room.	literal	0
‘Welcome to Langley.’	literal	0
He held his hand out in welcome.	metaphorical	1
When the introductions were complete, the Exec Director, the DDA, the DDI, Sorge and Nowak settled themselves round the small conference table.	literal	0
‘We have a new problem,’ kicked off the Exec Director.	metaphorical	1
‘The English operative who was guarding Trimmler has taken off.	literal	0
He's also taken an agent of ours with him.	literal	0
As hostage.	literal	0
A woman.	literal	0
We believe they're still in New Orleans.’	literal	0
‘Why?’ asked Sorge, concerned.	literal	0
‘I do n't know yet.	literal	0
What about Goodenache?’	metaphorical	1
He decided to turn the pressure on the Russian.	metaphorical	1
‘He caught a flight to Frankfurt.	metaphorical	1
he hired a car, but the car was found abandoned on the outskirts of Frankfurt.	literal	0
We are trying to find our missing scientist now.’	literal	0
‘Are the German authorities involved?’	metaphorical	1
‘No.	literal	0
We have our own means.’	metaphorical	1
Sorge saw the Exec  Director look up, his eyebrows raised suddenly.	metaphorical	1
‘We both have our methods.	metaphorical	1
Even in an independent Germany.	literal	0
After all, it was the death of our people in these situations that has brought us together.’	metaphorical	1
The Exec Director shrugged.	literal	0
Bastard Russians were still up to their old tricks.	metaphorical	1
He ignored the pointed look the DDI was giving him.	metaphorical	1
‘I thought it best if the Director of our operations in New Orleans gave you a run down of what has taken place up to now.’	metaphorical	1
He sat back and let the DDA give a full report, including the trip to the voodoo ceremony and all that followed.	metaphorical	1
Sorge did n't stir, even when they mentioned the gruesome spectacle of Trimmler's arms folded in the sign of a swastika.	metaphorical	1
‘We still are n't convinced that Trimmler's death has anything to do with the death of our agents.	metaphorical	1
There's no definite link.’	metaphorical	1
‘The situation might be clearer when I've finished.’	metaphorical	1
Sorge looked round the table, saw their undisguised curiosity.	literal	0
‘In 1942, in Germany, we had a GRU network named the Rote Kapelle…’	metaphorical	1
‘What's that?’ asked the Exec Director.	metaphorical	1
‘Red Orchestra.	metaphorical	1
The Nazis called it that because we had radio operators we code-named musicians.	metaphorical	1
Their leader, the Chef, we called him, was Leopold Trepper.	literal	0
It was this group that radioed the warning of Operation Blue, the attack on Stalingrad that led to Hitler's biggest wartime disaster on the Russian Front.’	metaphorical	1
‘Who was feeding you all this information in Germany?’ asked the Exec Director.	metaphorical	1
‘High-ranking officials.	literal	0
Both in the military and in the Government.	metaphorical	1
They saw the damage Hitler was doing.	metaphorical	1
They did n't disagree with his aims, only his methods.	metaphorical	1
When they saw that the war could not be won, even as early as 1941, some of them opened up lines of communication with us and the British.’	metaphorical	1
‘We did n't get that sort of stuff till late into 1944,’ said the DDA.	metaphorical	1
‘You were n't Europeans.	literal	0
We had centuries of contacts  to fall back on.	metaphorical	1
For all their bravery and resourcefulness, their information was often wasted, because Stalin did n't believe them.	literal	0
But then, he found it difficult to believe anyone.	metaphorical	1
The Germans, with more sophisticated radio-tracking equipment, started to track down the musicians.	metaphorical	1
Even Trepper was captured and the Rote Kapelle was wound up at the end of 1942.	metaphorical	1
Our information continued for a while, but it was of doubtful origin.	metaphorical	1
Trepper was interrogated by the Gestapo and we believed he became a double agent, a lot of misinformation was received in Moscow.’	metaphorical	1
Sorge leant across and finished his coffee before continuing.	metaphorical	1
‘But we still needed information.	literal	0
The overall network with sources inside Germany was the Rote Drei.’	metaphorical	1
‘The Red what?’ said the Exec Director, pleased that he had deciphered the first word of the new code-name.	metaphorical	1
‘Three.	literal	0
The Red Three.	literal	0
Based in Switzerland and named after the three transmitters that they used.	metaphorical	1
The most important source of information, from agents inside Germany, was from a group under Rudolf Roessler.	metaphorical	1
His code-name was Lucy and his network, the Lucy Ring.	metaphorical	1
Roessler, or Lucy, was a Swiss Intelligence Officer of German extraction.	literal	0
He had many contacts in Germany.	metaphorical	1
Lucy's four main contacts were Major General Oster who was the head of the Abwehr; Admiral Canaris who was later hanged for his part in the 1944 bomb plot; Carl Goehdeler who was leader of the official opposition to Hitler; and Colonel Boetzel, the commanding officer of Intelligence Evaluation.	metaphorical	1
There were others, but Lucy never disclosed any of them to us.’	metaphorical	1
‘Even after the war?’ asked the DDI.	metaphorical	1
‘The Lucy Ring was disbanded in 1943, after being responsible for some invaluable work.	metaphorical	1
I wo n't go through all their successes, but it was substantial.	metaphorical	1
The British were involved with them through us and it was their advanced work on breaking cyphers that enabled the ring to establish such a great record.	metaphorical	1
But the>ring disbanded, once more because of Stalin's penchant for secrecy, after Moscow tried to bypass Roessler and go direct to his Number Two.’ 	metaphorical	1
‘So, where's the link?’ interrupted the DDA, impatient as ever.	metaphorical	1
‘It's important you understand the background,’ said Sorge, not allowing the American to get under his skin.	metaphorical	1
‘Nothing further came from the ring until the last few weeks of the war.	metaphorical	1
With the Allies advancing on the Eastern and Western fronts, many high-ranking Germans were out to save their own necks.	metaphorical	1
The Lucy Ring was reactivated, this time without the knowledge of the British.’	metaphorical	1
‘Or the Americans,’ commented the Exec Director.	literal	0
‘I suggest you take that up with Comrade Stalin,’ replied Sorge drily.	metaphorical	1
‘It was an impressive list.	metaphorical	1
They did n't just have knowledge.	metaphorical	1
They also had wealth.	literal	0
In all forms.	metaphorical	1
Art, cash, in every form possible.	metaphorical	1
They used the ring because of their line into Switzerland.	metaphorical	1
They wanted the security of the Swiss banks and the Russian Bear.	metaphorical	1
One was dependent on the other.’	metaphorical	1
‘So they bought immunity.	metaphorical	1
While our boys were still getting killed,’ snapped the DDI.	metaphorical	1
‘As were ours,’ snapped back Sorge.	metaphorical	1
‘But your hands were n't that clean.	metaphorical	1
You were bringing scientists and others into America just as we were.	literal	0
Scientists with Nazi records, scientists with a history of brutality, war criminals.’	metaphorical	1
‘Gentlemen, please,’ said Nowak, ever the diplomat.	literal	0
‘Can we just stick to what we're here to discuss?	metaphorical	1
Go on, Dimitri.’	metaphorical	1
Sorge was annoyed with himself, irritated that he had allowed the Intelligence man to get under his skin.	metaphorical	1
‘Of course,’ he smiled back.	metaphorical	1
‘Now… ah, yes… we used the Lucy Ring.	literal	0
Many Germans, with their prizes, crossed safely into Switzerland.	literal	0
They came in cars, army lorries, even an aeroplane.	literal	0
Their riches were stored in the banks under private accounts and then they were brought through Czechoslovakia and East Germany into the Soviet Union.’	metaphorical	1
‘All of them?’ asked the DDA.	literal	0
‘Those who broke their word were hunted down.’	metaphorical	1
‘And disposed of?’ 	literal	0
‘Some needed reminding that we expected them to honour their word.’	metaphorical	1
It was a cold reminder of their world, of the business they traded in daily.	metaphorical	1
‘We had a large colony of Nazis living in the Soviet Union.	metaphorical	1
They were n't all scientists, in fact we had>little use for most of them.	metaphorical	1
They had their own estates and farms to the west of Moscow.	metaphorical	1
They kept their secret identities and paid for it through their Swiss bank accounts.	metaphorical	1
But they remained Germans, always dreaming of going back to the Fatherland one day.’	metaphorical	1
‘How many Nazis did you take to Russia after the war?’	metaphorical	1
‘The Narodnyi Kommissariat Vnutrennikh Del, our People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs, was responsible for—’	metaphorical	1
‘I never heard of them,’ the DDA stopped him.	metaphorical	1
‘NKVD,’ explained the DDI patronizingly.	literal	0
‘Wiped out twenty million Russians for Stalin.	metaphorical	1
That right?’ he challenged Sorge.	metaphorical	1
‘More.	literal	0
Thirty million.	literal	0
According to official sources,’ Sorge riposted.	metaphorical	1
‘A most useful organization.’	literal	0
That should shut them up.	metaphorical	1
He felt the look of disbelief pass between the Exec Director and the DDA.	metaphorical	1
The other just watched him, the mocking smile still on his lips.	metaphorical	1
He would be the one Rostov had warned him to be wary of.	literal	0
He decided to wipe the smile off his face.	metaphorical	1
‘Thirty thousand.	literal	0
That's how many East Germans we deported into the Soviet Union after the war.’	metaphorical	1
The DDI's smile disappeared.	metaphorical	1
‘Thirty thousand Nazis?	literal	0
Jesus.’	literal	0
‘Yes.	literal	0
And we kept another hundred and twenty thousand between 1945 and 1954 in Hitler's old concentration camps.	metaphorical	1
Many were Nazis, but businessmen and professionals were also our targets.	metaphorical	1
A third of those died.	metaphorical	1
The others were eventually released and absorbed into the Democratic Republic.’	metaphorical	1
‘Including Nazi sympathizers?’	literal	0
‘Probably.’	literal	0
‘Does n't that concern you?’	metaphorical	1
Sorge shrugged.	literal	0
‘Not really.	literal	0
I was eight years old at the  time.’	metaphorical	1
It was n't the answer that the DDI expected and Sorge regretted his words.	literal	0
He was n't here to make jokes.	metaphorical	1
‘The thirty thousand in the Soviet Union, as I said, became a community in their own right.	metaphorical	1
Without our knowledge, over the years, with the use of their money and supportive people in the Swiss banks, they forged contacts with those left behind in East Germany.	metaphorical	1
They all had one dream.	metaphorical	1
To see a unified Germany.	metaphorical	1
To regain what they had lost.	metaphorical	1
They had a code-name amongst themselves.	metaphorical	1
Something that linked them, was a reminder of how they had got there.	metaphorical	1
It had to be a safe name, innocuous, nothing that would draw attention to the past.	metaphorical	1
They remembered the Lucy network, their gateway out of Germany.	metaphorical	1
They called themselves Die Lucie Geister.’	literal	0
‘The Lucy Ghosts.’	metaphorical	1
‘Yes.’	literal	0
‘Did the organization extend to America?’	metaphorical	1
The Exec Director was alarmed.	literal	0
How the hell did they…	metaphorical	1
‘Goodenache.	literal	0
I guess he was one of them?’ asked the DDI.	literal	0
‘We were n't sure, but in view of his sudden departure, I would say yes.’	literal	0
‘Which ties Trimmler in.	metaphorical	1
And God knows who else.	literal	0
The name Grob Mitzer mean anything?’	metaphorical	1
‘He was one of their leaders.	literal	0
It was the Lucy Ghosts who supplied him with the cash that helped him build his empire.’	metaphorical	1
‘Why did n't you stop it?	metaphorical	1
Damn it, you knew about it for long enough,’ snapped the Exec Director.	metaphorical	1
‘We did n't realize how important it was.	literal	0
We thought they were like any other wartime group, nothing more than reminiscences and marching songs.	literal	0
Old men remembering their youth.	literal	0
The importance of it did n't surface until Germany was reunified.	metaphorical	1
And it was only the Englishman overhearing the conversation between Goodenache and Trimmler that finally bridged the gap.’	metaphorical	1
‘So why should the English guy take off with the girl?’	literal	0
The DDI changed the subject. 	metaphorical	1
‘He's not one of us.	literal	0
I suggest you ask your Allies about that.	metaphorical	1
Maybe he's just an adventurer.	literal	0
No more.	literal	0
You must have cleared him.’	metaphorical	1
‘Of course.’	literal	0
The Exec Director did n't want his dirty washing wrung out in front of this Russian.	metaphorical	1
‘Was there anything else?’	literal	0
‘Only that the GDR, East Germany, as it was, is different to the West.	metaphorical	1
There are still many there who have n't forgotten the war.	literal	0
Their attitude is different to us.	metaphorical	1
Some are still waiting for the war to end.	literal	0
They're a traditional people.	literal	0
Many ex-Nazis, even Gestapo, working and living normal everyday lives.’	literal	0
‘Working for the Stasi.’	literal	0
The DDI reminded them all of the secret police who had run East Germany with an iron fist.	metaphorical	1
‘Some, yes.	literal	0
Others returned to the jobs they had before the war.	metaphorical	1
Within the new Germany, many of them have become frightened.	metaphorical	1
Their secrets are no longer safe.	metaphorical	1
Most of all, they fear the Israelis.’	literal	0
‘Is Frick one of these guys?’ asked the DDA, remembering the name picked up by Adam in New Orleans.	metaphorical	1
‘No,’ lied Sorge.	literal	0
His orders were quite specific.	metaphorical	1
Do n't ratify any names.	literal	0
They did n't want the Yanks stumbling in and screwing up in an attempt to force the issue.	metaphorical	1
‘So what's all this got to do with the deaths of our agents?’ continued the DDA.	metaphorical	1
‘We're not sure.	literal	0
Except that a lot of the information we have both lost was about the Lucy Ghosts.	metaphorical	1
Link that with Trimmler's death, Goodenache's sudden departure for Germany and the mention of the Lucy Ghosts during their conversation, and I think you will agree that is the strongest lead we have to follow.’	metaphorical	1
Nobody spoke for a while, then the Exec Director reopened the discussion.	metaphorical	1
‘Has Moscow any suggestions as to how we should proceed?’	metaphorical	1
‘No,’ replied Sorge, which was what he'd been told to say.	literal	0
‘We hoped you would come up with something.’	literal	0
‘I'm sure we will.’ 	literal	0
‘Can you tell us the names of some of these Lucy Ghosts?’ cut in the DDI.	metaphorical	1
‘The ones in Russia.	literal	0
How high up the ladder did they go?’	metaphorical	1
Sorge enjoyed his reply.	literal	0
‘In time, yes.	metaphorical	1
But I can tell you you're wasting your efforts looking for Martin Bormann in South America.	literal	0
He died twenty years ago.’	literal	0
He watched their stunned faces across the room.	metaphorical	1
Well and truly shafted.	literal	0
They said little after that and Sorge was soon being escorted, with Nowak, down to the underground garage.	metaphorical	1
Five minutes later they were on their way back to Washington.	metaphorical	1
‘Bormann.	literal	0
Fucking Bormann.	literal	0
They had him all the time,’ said an astonished DDI.	metaphorical	1
‘Would'ya believe it?	literal	0
They probably got Hitler stashed away too.’	metaphorical	1
‘Well, it's been a real eye-opener,’ said the Exec Director.	literal	0
‘But let's not forget we've still got a crisis on.	metaphorical	1
Find the Englishman.	literal	0
That's our first priority.	metaphorical	1
Find him and see what the son of a bitch is up to.’	metaphorical	1
The AmTrak Crescent Atlanta Georgia	literal	0
The train pulled out of Atlanta Station at 7.39 p.m., four minutes behind schedule.	metaphorical	1
They had slept well, eaten well, slept again and eventually got bored with the passing countryside.	metaphorical	1
Adam had insisted they stay in the room and she had n't found a good enough reason to change his mind.	metaphorical	1
He was thumbing through USA Today for the umpteenth time, looking for something he might have missed, when he heard her giggling.	metaphorical	1
She was in the swivel chair, reflected in the window with the dark night as a backdrop, her head angled towards him. 	metaphorical	1
‘What's so funny?’ he asked pleasantly, putting the paper down.	literal	0
‘You sure know how to give a girl a good time.’	metaphorical	1
‘Do n't I?’ he grinned back.	metaphorical	1
‘According to all the books, a secret agent's life's meant to be glamorous.	metaphorical	1
We've spent twenty-four hours together and in that time I've been bitten by bugs in a hooker's bed, tied up a guy with no legs and stolen his wheelchair, stayed cooped up in a train for twelve hours with an attractive man and behaved like a virgin.	metaphorical	1
Do n't take that the wrong way.	metaphorical	1
But James Bond would've handled it differently.’	metaphorical	1
‘He was Scottish.	literal	0
I'm English.	literal	0
They prefer the ram'em and bang'em method.	metaphorical	1
We're more sophisticated in our approach.’	metaphorical	1
‘What happens next?’	metaphorical	1
‘In which department?’	metaphorical	1
‘In the where're-we-going department.’	metaphorical	1
‘To Nordhausen.	literal	0
That's where Trimmler said he would meet Goodenache.’	metaphorical	1
‘Trimmler's dead.’	literal	0
‘And Goodenache's running from the Russians.	metaphorical	1
He ca n't go back there.	literal	0
From what I heard, Germany was still their home.	metaphorical	1
And Nordhausen was where they shared something special.	metaphorical	1
They wanted to go there.	literal	0
If Goodenache's frightened, and he wants to hide, that's as good a place as any.’	literal	0
‘Nordhausen.	literal	0
Where is that?’	metaphorical	1
‘Central Germany.	literal	0
South of Berlin, near what was the old East-West border.	metaphorical	1
An industrial town.	literal	0
It was also where the Nazis built most of their rockets, the V1s and V2s, during the Second World War.	literal	0
From what I remember, they moved most of the rocket manufacture down there so that our bombers could n't get to them.	metaphorical	1
Built the factory right in the heart of the mountains.	metaphorical	1
Used slave labour.	literal	0
I think a lot of people died in the making of those weapons, before they ever got launched and blew up half of London.’	metaphorical	1
‘Why would they want to go back there?’	literal	0
‘Who knows.	literal	0
Maybe it was a job they never finished.’ 	literal	0
‘But they did.	literal	0
Those guys put people into space, put our people on the moon.	metaphorical	1
That's enough for most people.’	metaphorical	1
‘That was just their work.	metaphorical	1
And they did n't do it for Germany.	literal	0
They did it for their conquerors.’	literal	0
‘You telling me that all those scientists spent their time in America and could n't wait to get home?’	metaphorical	1
‘Not all of them.	literal	0
Most of them became good Americans.	literal	0
And good Russians, I suppose.	literal	0
But these two wanted to go home.	metaphorical	1
They never stopped being Germans.	metaphorical	1
Maybe it's the only thing they ever dreamt about.’	metaphorical	1
‘Weird.’	literal	0
‘Is it?	literal	0
To want to go home?’	metaphorical	1
‘All they're after is their youth.	metaphorical	1
Catching up with what they thought they'd lost.’	metaphorical	1
‘Are n't we all?’	literal	0
She shrugged and looked thoughtful.	literal	0
‘Penny for them,’ he said.	literal	0
‘I was… uh… just being a woman.’	literal	0
‘Tell me.’	literal	0
‘Thinking of Peter.’	literal	0
‘Ah!	literal	0
The venerable ex.’	literal	0
‘I know.	literal	0
Here's us, heading for trouble and God knows what else, and in the middle of you talking about Nordhausen, I start thinking of Peter.	metaphorical	1
Wondering what the hell he's up to.	metaphorical	1
The emotional mind of a woman.’	metaphorical	1
‘Stop knocking yourself.’	metaphorical	1
‘Makes a change.	metaphorical	1
I usually leave that to you.’	metaphorical	1
He burst out laughing.	literal	0
‘OK, tough guy.	metaphorical	1
What's got you so tickled?’	literal	0
‘Here we are, crammed in a small compartment in a train, hurtling across America being chased by the CIA, the FBI and God knows who else, and you're worried about your ex-husband's sex life.	metaphorical	1
Christ, he must've been good.’	literal	0
‘He was a shit.’	metaphorical	1
‘So, why…?’	literal	0
Adam stopped and shook his head.	metaphorical	1
‘Because some of us like shits.	metaphorical	1
Do n't ask me why.’	literal	0
She laughed with him.	literal	0
‘He's cheap, too.	literal	0
He once bought  me a Louis Vuitton handbag.	literal	0
Your travel case reminded me of it when we left the hotel.	metaphorical	1
It was for our second anniversary.	literal	0
I broke the lock and took it back to the shop in La Jolla.	literal	0
They told me it was a fake.	literal	0
A fucking Hong Kong fake.	literal	0
Can you believe that?’	metaphorical	1
‘What did he say?’	literal	0
‘That he'd bought it in New York when he was there on a visit.	metaphorical	1
And if he could remember where the shop was, he'd go back and sue the bastards.	metaphorical	1
That's Peter for you.	metaphorical	1
A cheapskate liar and womanizer.	literal	0
And I ca n't let him go.	metaphorical	1
That's really pathetic news.	metaphorical	1
Is n't it?’	literal	0
‘No.	literal	0
Just human.’	literal	0
‘Very understanding.	literal	0
What would you know?’	literal	0
‘Maybe not women, but… my parents.	literal	0
And my twin brother.’	literal	0
‘You're a twin?’	literal	0
‘Was.	literal	0
They all died when I was nine.’	literal	0
‘You said they were out of the country.	literal	0
That you had guardians.’	metaphorical	1
‘We all have things to hide.’	metaphorical	1
‘Was he an identical twin?’	literal	0
‘Yes.’	literal	0
‘That means you came from the same egg.	metaphorical	1
That right?’	metaphorical	1
‘Something like that.’	metaphorical	1
He, in his usual stoical manner, did n't tell her that he had studiously learnt everything about twins and their relationships.	metaphorical	1
‘I had a boyfriend in High School.	metaphorical	1
He was a twin and his brother played on the football team.	metaphorical	1
If he got hurt, my guy used to suffer, too.	literal	0
We used to watch the game together and I'd suddenly see him wince in pain.	metaphorical	1
Just like that.	metaphorical	1
And I'd look on the field and it was his brother who'd been tackled.’	literal	0
‘Yes.	literal	0
Something like that.’	metaphorical	1
He laughed.	literal	0
‘I remember once getting a tap round the head from my dad.	literal	0
I'd done something wrong.	literal	0
I remember him saying it was a shame that he had to punish us both when only one of us was being naughty.	literal	0
That tap sorted us both out.’	metaphorical	1
‘Do you still feel he's with you?’ 	metaphorical	1
‘He is.	literal	0
‘Then you're lucky.	literal	0
You're not alone.	literal	0
Is that so bad?’	metaphorical	1
‘I do n't know why I'm alive and he's dead.’	literal	0
‘What's his name?’	literal	0
‘Marcus.’	literal	0
‘Nice name.	literal	0
I'm glad you've got someone to love.	metaphorical	1
It's important.	literal	0
Ours is actually a new house.	literal	0
It was but er  the market was so low that he decided not to  well I do n't think he could get a buyer actually, it's just stood there so he he he let it out rather than have it stood there  with the option for us to buy it but I say now the prices are lower he's not keen on selling it at that price.	metaphorical	1
 And I'm not prepared to go on paying three thousand a year renting it to give to him when I could be buying one myself.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I mean three thousand a year to rent one's a lot of money really.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
 Hallo there 	literal	0
Oh hallo yeah, sorry about that	metaphorical	1
a bath and I was soaking in there for ages.	metaphorical	1
I was n't quite decent and I thought well I'm not letting people in when I'm not decent	literal	0
Oh no.	literal	0
I mean, please excuse the mess wo n't you.	literal	0
Does n't matter.	literal	0
 If you'd have let me in I could have washed your back for you.	literal	0
No no no.	literal	0
No I can manage on my own thank you.	metaphorical	1
Fair enough.	metaphorical	1
Fair enough.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
Sorry to intrude on your  on your privacy.	metaphorical	1
That's okay.	metaphorical	1
But er  there we are.	metaphorical	1
That's the kitchen is it?	literal	0
Economy seven.	literal	0
 it's dark in here. 	literal	0
 bit sort of dark 	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
It's not normally.	literal	0
Nice size kitchen is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah that's alright  is n't there?	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
If you can imagine it without the boxes it	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cos you're packing up. 	literal	0
for a flat it's er	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It's a nice size.	literal	0
It's a lovely size kitchen. 	literal	0
 you?	literal	0
Oh yes. 	literal	0
What act what actually does the price include?	metaphorical	1
 Does it does it	literal	0
That I could n't tell you.	metaphorical	1
Is the cooker included or not?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
That's 	literal	0
That's, that's yours is it?	literal	0
Does n't, does n't say.	metaphorical	1
It just says a cooker point.	metaphorical	1
Cooker point.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
All the units are obviously?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh yes, yeah.	literal	0
Are they your carpets?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Okay.	literal	0
And	literal	0
So the carpets may be as well.	literal	0
So we might get might get the carpets in as well.	metaphorical	1
 you'd have to negotiate on that one with Mr  and Mr.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 talking about your home.	metaphorical	1
The carpets 	literal	0
Everything that is here is mine with the exception of the carpets.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Shall we go, is that the bedroom through there?	literal	0
No that's the bathroom.	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
Do you want to come?	literal	0
And is that a store cupboard?	literal	0
That's that's the airing cupboard through there.	literal	0
But it	literal	0
This is the airing cupboard in here is it?	literal	0
it does n't air.	literal	0
I'll be honest with you, it does n't air.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
It's er very cold in there.	literal	0
Well it's good  good, got a well lagged tank.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Which is not a bad	literal	0
Yeah that is it.	metaphorical	1
That's what he said he had to	metaphorical	1
That's not a bad thing in a way is it?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
It's better than having the water.	literal	0
They actually took they actually took the front off so that the water would get hotter.	literal	0
Erm and it did n't work and  you know	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
I thought then I'd be able to use it as an airing cupboard but it still did n't work but it's like you said it's because it's got such a good	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And it does, once you've actually heated the water  it keeps hot for so long it's amazing.	metaphorical	1
Ours is like that is n't it?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Where we are now is	literal	0
We've got a similar one on ours.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
But it's a good store is n't it?	literal	0
For your ironing board and cleaner and	literal	0
Yes it's quite large as well is n't it?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I I mean you can put anything in there really.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I mean I did have some of the boxes in there until I sort of, thought while I was sorting things out.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, yeah.	literal	0
The bathroom	literal	0
Yeah that's the bathroom in there yeah. 	literal	0
Oh it's a nice little bathroom as well is n't it?	literal	0
Oh that's not too bad either is it?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
No it's pleasant.	literal	0
It is is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Is n't it.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It's quite	literal	0
Very pleasant.	literal	0
Yeah, it's quite nice.	literal	0
Big enough.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I like the colour as well. 	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yes it's a nice colour.	literal	0
It's a warm colour.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Nice.	literal	0
Yeah this would be terrific.	metaphorical	1
Yeah that's alright.	metaphorical	1
 like we've got the, quite, similar lot	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Same as we've got at home.	literal	0
we've got already.	literal	0
 Feels warm in here as well.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Do you have any problem with the heating?	metaphorical	1
Or	literal	0
Erm the bedroom does n't get as hot as I would like it	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
but then I have circulation problems so I do feel the cold.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, yeah.	literal	0
Erm but here in the kitchen it's lovely and warm.	literal	0
But but it's quite, it's a warm it's a warm	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I mean that heater is not on full, not on full power.	metaphorical	1
That's quite good is n't it?	metaphorical	1
 like ours.	literal	0
That's very much like the one, I mean ours is on  about two or something like that and	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
We have ours on two and it's ever so warm.	metaphorical	1
You go in there in the evenings you know when it's been  when it's been off and	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
As I say I mean well because I do feel the cold I suppose I have to have more heat than	metaphorical	1
Yeah, yeah.	literal	0
a normal person but er	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Quite nice really is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah I like this too.	literal	0
The bathroom's a bit chilly but once you've put that heater on  and shut the door for a few minutes it's	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
it's lovely.	literal	0
Yeah we've got one like that, I know.	metaphorical	1
That's not my artwork on there, that's my little niece's artwork.	literal	0
 space under there as well.	literal	0
Yeah there's space under there for  bits and pieces.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And it's amazing actually what you can get under there.	literal	0
Ooh look at this. 	metaphorical	1
That's a nice size bedroom.	literal	0
It is a nice size is n't it?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
It's	literal	0
Eh?	literal	0
quite a big bedroom.	literal	0
That's a smashing size bedroom is n't it?	literal	0
Mm it's a very good size.	literal	0
This is where you  is n't it?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Oh that's a lovely big bedroom is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And you've got the heater here over in the corner as well so it's gon na	metaphorical	1
Got the heater yeah  yeah.	literal	0
air it through.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cos you do n't always want it hot do you?	literal	0
No, we do n't like it too hot in the bed, well Stuart does n't.	literal	0
He's always well I'm always	literal	0
cold and he's always boiling.	metaphorical	1
If I have the heat up very high in the bedroom he ca n't sleep. 	metaphorical	1
I'm impressed are n't you?	literal	0
It's ever so nice.	literal	0
Very.	literal	0
It is lovely, yeah.	literal	0
 Have the oth is there another flat then above this one then?	metaphorical	1
Above.	literal	0
Yeah that's a bit smaller.	literal	0
Yeah  the door there is n't it?	literal	0
That's a bit smaller.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Do you hear them at all?	literal	0
Erm  sometimes if he's  been out very very late and I'm still up and he's come home after a heavy night drinking.	metaphorical	1
I mean I'm not saying he's alcoholic but he goes out with the lads and he  you know he'll he'll sort of thud up the stairs.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
But then he'll apologize the next day.	literal	0
Man after me own heart.	metaphorical	1
You know I mean other than that, no I mean it it's not as if	metaphorical	1
Yeah I was gon na say same.	literal	0
  this one.	literal	0
 Oh probably, probably.	literal	0
If he goes to the pub Stuart would probably know him anyway. 	literal	0
Might do yeah.	literal	0
More than likely.	literal	0
No, I mean it it's not as if  you hear the telly or	literal	0
Oh I see, these are his stairs.	metaphorical	1
That's the stairway.	literal	0
That's his stairs, yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
His door's just there is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
That's right, yeah that's 	metaphorical	1
Yes that's his door there and	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
that's his stairs out.	literal	0
But the upstairs one that's  the kitchen's a bit smaller.	literal	0
Erm and instead of the bath in the bathroom he's just got a shower up there.	literal	0
 probably is  wardrobes there.	literal	0
I must admit I like a shower but then again I do like the chance to have a bath now and again	metaphorical	1
bath every, every now and again yeah.	metaphorical	1
Yeah that's bigger.	literal	0
Erm which is why I went for the downstairs cos I had a choice of either.	metaphorical	1
But I went for the downstairs one because of the bath.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, yeah.	literal	0
Yeah be nice.	literal	0
It's nice.	literal	0
It's a nice size.	literal	0
I mean we've just been to look at some others and  upstairs and downstairs.	metaphorical	1
But the upstairs one in the other one was was	literal	0
Was bigger than the downstairs.	literal	0
Hell of a lot of difference really, it's surprising just a	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
I mean I must admit I've looked at some other flats.	metaphorical	1
Erm  and one I looked at I could n't believe it.	metaphorical	1
Erm  I mean it was a top floor flat.	literal	0
And so I mean you had to sort of go up several flights of stairs  and you walked in and it, it looked lovely.	metaphorical	1
Thought oh this is nice it erm  it ha it had n't got a separate kitchen, it was sort of like  a kitchen diner	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
but it was very big.	literal	0
A studio.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
It was very big.	literal	0
I thought oh well this is lovely.	literal	0
Walks into the bedroom, well you would have hardly got the bed in there never mind about anything else.	metaphorical	1
And er there was a hand basin in there  and when you went into	literal	0
In, in the bedroom?	literal	0
In the bedroom.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
When you walked into the  well what I would call a cupboard but they classed it as the bathroom.	metaphorical	1
You'd got the toilet there  and behind the door, I mean you had to sort of squeeze yourself and shut the door, and behind the door was a shower.	literal	0
You're joking.	literal	0
No shower curtain mind you.	literal	0
Even so, no room to swing a cat.	metaphorical	1
Terrible.	literal	0
It was terrible.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
This is nice though.	literal	0
I like this.	literal	0
Yeah I like this one.	literal	0
Very much.	literal	0
Yeah it's a nice, just a nice size.	literal	0
Do you know who the builder is?	literal	0
It says here local  building.	metaphorical	1
Erm  well no all I know is Bates and Dack but they did n't actually, but I mean yeah they put it together.	literal	0
They, they renovated it.	literal	0
They they they	literal	0
That's right yeah.	metaphorical	1
They renovated it.	literal	0
they re, revamped it or whatever.	literal	0
 allocated parking.	literal	0
You just park in the road or?	literal	0
No, no there's the gravel down	metaphorical	1
There's a space down 	metaphorical	1
the side is for parking.	literal	0
Oh good.	literal	0
So you've  got your own bit.	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
 Yeah this one, I mean upstairs has n't but  this one has.	literal	0
And is there anything there, I mean can you dry your clothes out there at all? 	literal	0
No.	literal	0
There's no  line.	literal	0
Ca n't get over the size of this though.	metaphorical	1
I think I'd probably put my wardrobes on his, on the stair wall.	metaphorical	1
That would dampen it a bit would n't it? 	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Nice.	literal	0
I like it.	literal	0
It's lovely and warm.	literal	0
Very nice.	literal	0
yeah.	literal	0
What is your situation?	metaphorical	1
I mean, are you renting the flat?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So how much notice do you have to give?	metaphorical	1
Er  a month.	literal	0
I'd like you to give me a month. 	metaphorical	1
Thank you very much indeed for showing us your home.	literal	0
Thank you very much.	literal	0
I'm sorry to bother you. 	literal	0
If you can hear next door's music I can assure you it's not a regular occurrence.	literal	0
And if you tell him about it he tu, he's in a rock band.	metaphorical	1
Erm  now and again he practises but he usually tries to do it when I'm not here but erm not	metaphorical	1
 seem quite friendly then?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Well we, we work shifts so he could probably do it when we're on earlies and	metaphorical	1
Well that's right yeah.	metaphorical	1
And when we're on lates he can do it at	metaphorical	1
Yeah if you let it, I mean you know he's fair like that.	metaphorical	1
If you let him know.	literal	0
We're not really in that much anyway are we?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
We work long hours and 	metaphorical	1
Thing is do n't you find in th in this sort of environment if you've got, you know  if they're nice people you all communicate do n't you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah, you can do things like that.	metaphorical	1
And that can work to your favour because if ever you have a problem, then you know.	metaphorical	1
Yeah you can talk and	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Yeah I mean that's the same as  I di I must admit I did have sort of an argument with him  once over his music.	metaphorical	1
We fell out for a little while but I mean,  playing loud but I mean upstairs is fine.	metaphorical	1
And next door to him, number five  they're an elderly couple erm and they've got one of their sons living there at erm  he's disabled in some way but I'm not quite sure how.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
But they are very very friendly.	literal	0
Very friendly they are.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I suppose some people might say to them oh you're being nosy but then that does n't bother me because you do n't tell them what you do n't want them to know.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
But it's nice because if ever you're poorly then it's in your welfare is n't it?	metaphorical	1
That's right, yeah.	metaphorical	1
They keep an eye	metaphorical	1
They do tend to keep an eye on me anyway.	metaphorical	1
Neighbourhood watch..	metaphorical	1
It's, well there is a Neighbourhood Watch Scheme down here.	metaphorical	1
Really?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
No I'm really impressed.	literal	0
It's nice is n't it?	literal	0
Did you just want to have a little wander? 	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
I like this one too.	literal	0
We'll have them both shall we?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
One each.	literal	0
We'll have them both.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, you can live in one and I'll live in another.	literal	0
 and live in yours.	literal	0
Nice are n't they?	literal	0
Lovely are n't they?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
  corner there 	literal	0
Goodness.	literal	0
Where do you get your carrots from?	literal	0
Er  my nephew has a shop.	literal	0
Erm  in Leverington actually.	literal	0
Yes 	literal	0
What, just like a shop shop or a?	literal	0
A  shop.	literal	0
So you got your you got your washing machine under there?	literal	0
Washing machine and cooker and fridge So of course you could have  in here.	literal	0
Cooker, fridge.	literal	0
I mean Yeah I say, or you could have a taller fridge.	literal	0
Oh yeah you could have a taller fridge.	literal	0
Fridge fridge-freezer up there or against that window could n't you?	literal	0
Have it away from that.	literal	0
I like them like that because what I tend to do with  so I like them that big because then I can cut them up into sticks, stick them in the fridge, then if I feel like being naughty  not ever so naughty because I'm nibbling at carrots rather than a packet of crisps or something.	metaphorical	1
But they're a nice  are n't they?	literal	0
Oh yeah and I mean that sort of size 	metaphorical	1
Yeah. 	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
. Well it's make your mind up time. 	metaphorical	1
Well We've got to see what Mr  says first wo n't we?	metaphorical	1
They're specially for  baking.	literal	0
I du n no.	literal	0
 I'm not waiting, bother waiting for the desired	literal	0
I mean with ordinary ones	metaphorical	1
Well.	literal	0
Er carrots are fifteen pence a pound but the potatoes th they're different.	literal	0
I mean those bakers, they were n't very expensive erm  but it's ordinary potatoes	metaphorical	1
 nice kitchen.	literal	0
I think they're probably a little bit more expensive but  he is much cheaper than in	literal	0
Well  in Leverington then?	metaphorical	1
Erm along the main Gorfield Road	literal	0
 But I mean, you ca n't get those that size where I live.	metaphorical	1
And I love baked potatoes.	literal	0
We end up having 	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
So thanks for showing us 	literal	0
Yep, thank you very much.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
disturb you again.	literal	0
No that's okay.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Very nice.	literal	0
Yeah I like it.	literal	0
Very nice.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It's nice and central 	literal	0
That's it, yeah.	metaphorical	1
I mean you're you're not sort of right in the centre of town, but	literal	0
Right in but it's only a few minutes away.	literal	0
That's right yeah.	metaphorical	1
You do n't have to have	literal	0
It's up the road and cross the main road and you're in  Kingsway are n't you?	metaphorical	1
You do n't need any wheels do you, really?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Which is just as well.	literal	0
I crashed	literal	0
You're wheel- less are you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah I crashed mine.	literal	0
Put it in the dyke.	metaphorical	1
Oh no.	literal	0
Very nice.	literal	0
I was very lucky actually.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Somebody was looking after me cos I should n't have got out and I did.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
It does actually.	literal	0
I was out with erm an nephew la last night and  I mean it was n't icy but it was sort of getting late and it was cold.	literal	0
It was slippy.	literal	0
And he was being silly.	literal	0
And I said to him if you do n't pack it up I'm gon na get out and walk.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Cos	literal	0
And he said well it's a long time since you had the accident.	metaphorical	1
I said I do n't care.	literal	0
It's still, you know silly little things	literal	0
No it still makes you very careful.	metaphorical	1
like that still unnerve me.	metaphorical	1
A bit of mud on the road and	metaphorical	1
That's it, yeah.	metaphorical	1
It was slippy though I mean I noticed that even, you know just pulling away from  or something like that  okay I mean it's a  reasonably   car but I mean, you know just a little bit too heavy on the accelerator	metaphorical	1
You can feel it.	metaphorical	1
it's very easy  you can feel it slipping	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
quite easily. 	literal	0
Thanks very much indeed.	literal	0
That's alright.	metaphorical	1
Lovely.	literal	0
Yeah thank you.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
Rumpole tonight.	literal	0
Yeah Rumpole and	literal	0
Last one.	literal	0
Coronation Street.	literal	0
Last one of the series.	literal	0
Yeah I know, they were n't very long series was it?	metaphorical	1
 Half a dozen, that's all it's been.	metaphorical	1
Coronation Street, half past seven till eight, Rumpole from nine to ten  so you can come out between eight and nine and ten and ele le le le  eight and nine and ten and eleven, so  you got time for  couple between eight and nine  and a couple between ten and eleven, how's that?	metaphorical	1
I've got time?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You mean Stuey's got time!	metaphorical	1
Well I'll stay and have my bath between eight and nine and you can go and have a drink  no I do n't think I'll be going out this evening.	metaphorical	1
The accelerator is the one on the right sir!	metaphorical	1
He is an old gentleman, dear but er  he is n't in a hurry what so ever.	metaphorical	1
Look he's slowing down there!	literal	0
Now he oh, oh he's found the accelerator!	literal	0
 Bloody hell!	metaphorical	1
 He's found it!	literal	0
 He's realizes which one it is  bloody hell!	metaphorical	1
 He's  getting too fast now!	literal	0
Might be up to thirty.	metaphorical	1
No, no.	literal	0
We're actually going a bit  over thir  we were going forty five, we're now back to forty now.	metaphorical	1
  Perhaps she's told him he's going too fast!	literal	0
Careful, slow down!	literal	0
 It's forty mile an hour zone anyway, so he's in the right and you're in the wrong anyway.	metaphorical	1
It is not a forty mile an hour zone, so you're in the wrong!	metaphorical	1
What, when you're getting into town?	literal	0
Not now it's not, it's still sixty odd.	metaphorical	1
Oh  well it is a Lada darling.	literal	0
The deal the deal i a	metaphorical	1
Ha  it wo n't go more than that!	metaphorical	1
the  zone starts  the  zone starts there, thirty.	metaphorical	1
Yeah but perhaps it wo n't go more than that.	metaphorical	1
So I'm now within I'm now within the limit  ooh!	metaphorical	1
So normally you are  way past the limit?	metaphorical	1
 Cos you do n't go as slow as this, even round here  something like that Ann. 	metaphorical	1
 Ann  thirty five  and he's speeding now.	literal	0
Going too fast!    brake!	literal	0
  You'll be old one day  just think when you're a little old man sitting behind	literal	0
I am	literal	0
the wheel.	literal	0
I am old.	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
I am old.	literal	0
What, thirty three!	literal	0
 Well one day you'll be about eighty, dear and you'll be the one sat there and someone saying, bloody hell look at that old codger behind the wheel!	metaphorical	1
 Only I wo n't be around to live to see it.	literal	0
I du n no.	literal	0
Well when you're eighty odd  I doubt it dear.	metaphorical	1
Du n no.	literal	0
I think I'm  pretty  confident on that one  when you're eighty I should be  ninety five and the 	metaphorical	1
You never know  	literal	0
I do n't think I'd be going shopping anyway.	literal	0
You never know dear, you may be a very very fit ninety five.	literal	0
Oh Ann's got ta go and  definitely have an operation, it could be before Christmas  I'll start	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
packing Friday on the way to  mum  Peter's mum  she told them  she's just in so much pain, she wants it doing  so he's gon na get in, I said, it's poss  that she'll be in six days  and probably off a few weeks after when she gets home  it's operation on her neck and shoulder  they're going to release the nerve  they reckon it's  it's a  she told them   and do what they will with it.	metaphorical	1
 today  running over cyclists   out the way.	literal	0
  you are in strange mood today, now you wan na run over a few cyclists, well there's an old lady and man there, I mean, why not pick them!	metaphorical	1
That old lady?	literal	0
Ha.	literal	0
Do you know who's that?	literal	0
Shame about that bungalow next door but one, cos that'd be a nice bungalow but it's  not very lovely  they do n't look after it very well.	metaphorical	1
Oh dear, they ca n't get the stuff up the stairs dear!	literal	0
 Got a wardrobe like ours and then  oh no it is n't it's a  combination one  it's having to go up through the window  let's hope they do n't drop it!	literal	0
 One with shelves in  gentlemen's wardrobe.	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
Is it gon na get through the window, anyway?	literal	0
Not now the window's shut!	literal	0
Ha.	literal	0
Oh dear!	literal	0
 I'd go and give him a hand but I do not like ladders  Fun is n't it?	metaphorical	1
 Shall we take photographs?	metaphorical	1
Get the camera out!	literal	0
Well the chap next door's finding it very amusing!	metaphorical	1
I think everybody's finding finding it very amusing at the moment.	metaphorical	1
That's not gon na go through that window anyway, is it?	literal	0
Well, it's gon na be a tight old squeeze.	metaphorical	1
 Why ca n't they take it through the back door and up the stair?	metaphorical	1
Perhaps it er  you do n't know where the stairs and what kind of stairs it is  but them kind of units usually come to bits  ours does.	metaphorical	1
 Cos Rita assembled it for us.	metaphorical	1
 Certainly having fun.	metaphorical	1
  sat here watching him.	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
 Quite interesting.	literal	0
It would n't be if it fell, would it!	literal	0
 Well then you'd laugh I should think, knowing you!	literal	0
 Stuart!	literal	0
Stuart!	literal	0
Hello.	literal	0
Do you think you could just open the door for me  please!	literal	0
Hold on to this   	literal	0
Coming back, I've got ta I've got ta stand here so I can turn the camera on!	literal	0
Ha.	literal	0
 go and get the camera!	literal	0
Ha.	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
 Ah  well that's what we're all waiting for, we're waiting for you to drop it!	metaphorical	1
They're watching  Neighbours  Come on, get up you lazy bugger!	metaphorical	1
 What time of day do you think you call this!	metaphorical	1
Shut your mouth!   later.	literal	0
A man trying to get a wardrobe through the bedroom window over there.	literal	0
I know, what is going on!	metaphorical	1
That's what we said.	metaphorical	1
Aye?	literal	0
He must have a  awful stairs!	literal	0
I'm watching these.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
He's alright now	literal	0
He's just about got it	literal	0
Yeah they've got it	literal	0
through.	literal	0
Is it in?	literal	0
Have they got a	literal	0
Yeah  just	literal	0
What were you shouting then?	metaphorical	1
 You know him?	literal	0
He's  you're on	metaphorical	1
I just	literal	0
candid camera!	metaphorical	1
 Go on	metaphorical	1
said smile!	literal	0
drop it he shouted!	literal	0
Smile, you're on candid camera!	metaphorical	1
 Have a laugh and joke with Dick.	metaphorical	1
Dick?	literal	0
Have a laugh and joke with Dick.	metaphorical	1
Dick?	literal	0
 Who's Dick?	literal	0
He's the 	literal	0
What the old man or the young	literal	0
The	literal	0
man?	literal	0
the elder gentleman.	literal	0
So you know him?	literal	0
Through his father, yes.	metaphorical	1
How are you?	literal	0
Not too bad.	literal	0
Not hundred percent either.	literal	0
Want a cup of tea Jean?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Have you rung the doctor?	literal	0
Tried to.	literal	0
Ca n't get through?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
We've only popped in to see whether you would like a lift into town now, before we go, rather than  go into town and then come back  just in case you want to	metaphorical	1
Go into town for a li  little while.	metaphorical	1
Oh  yeah I would.	literal	0
Thought you might want a lift.	metaphorical	1
We do n't want anything up there.	metaphorical	1
Shopping 	literal	0
 but er  I do n't know, if you like it  see what I mean?	metaphorical	1
Have a little drinky-poos.	metaphorical	1
No course not.	literal	0
I'll ha I'll do it I'll I'll made the shepherds pie.	literal	0
What with?	literal	0
A shepherd.	literal	0
A shepherd. 	literal	0
I've got the carrots here for.	literal	0
No I've I've got some!	literal	0
 I had some.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
I had some my dear.	literal	0
Come on.	metaphorical	1
I found  yeah there is some out there, they were alright so I I I boiled them up  they're alright.	literal	0
I told you to leave it and I'll do it!	literal	0
Ah?	literal	0
 No that's alright!	literal	0
You do n't look well, you're not right, I can see, cos you do n't look well.	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
You do n't look well.	literal	0
No I did n't feel al  alright Ann.	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
I'm alright.	literal	0
You're not!	literal	0
You know, I do n't feel myself  anyway I ca n't I ca n't get through to  anyway I'll try so it does n't matter.	metaphorical	1
While we're up	metaphorical	1
town I shall go around there, you can drop me and I'll make an appointment there  while we're there.	metaphorical	1
Well it's getting up there.	metaphorical	1
Who do you want, Do  Doctor  or	literal	0
Yeah  anyway it	literal	0
if possible?	literal	0
does n't matter I'll, I'll keep phoning.	metaphorical	1
No might as well 	literal	0
Do n't worry  I mean i to start with he  Sh Sheila's coming over tomorrow, I ca n't go tomorrow really can I?	literal	0
Why not?	literal	0
Unless tomorrow night.	literal	0
She can go with you.	literal	0
And Ve  Vera phoned this morning, Joe phoned this morning an all  I did n't want them to go out, anyway I've made arrangements to go round to see Vera on Friday afternoon    and they  they went out to  where was it?	metaphorical	1
The  she thought they were due a special run, cos you know  they did n't.	metaphorical	1
Oh dear!	literal	0
She said you'd be the   I mean,  and family when Wendy and that go  and er  she  they had to  with a la carte, oh it cost her a bomb!	metaphorical	1
Ha  oh dear!	literal	0
They do a dinner special inside there, I mean most places do roast	literal	0
Yeah on Sunday they do.	metaphorical	1
Sunday lunch six quid	literal	0
you know that kind of thing  oh   they had to pay a la carte.	metaphorical	1
We had 	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
No you watch it, we're going.	literal	0
It's alright, I'll see it later on, it's on again	metaphorical	1
We're	literal	0
at half past five.	metaphorical	1
We're popping in to  estate agents.	metaphorical	1
Erm  it's a load of rubbish anyway!	metaphorical	1
 Absolute rubbish!	metaphorical	1
We're going to estate agents but we thought	literal	0
Are you?	literal	0
we'd pop in see how you were and	metaphorical	1
Yeah I'm alright	literal	0
See if you want anything up town.	metaphorical	1
no I feel about a I I'll I've said to Ann, no I feel alright Ann but  you know just  I du n no  I'm not quite myself am I?	metaphorical	1
 I do n't feel	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
very energetic  and I should be alright now after  been to sleep  should do  I'm alright  I ca n't think of anything I wan na get  I want up town anyway  nothing  think of anything	metaphorical	1
Just that norm normally 	literal	0
I do n't, very nice, thank you very much.	literal	0
Washing powder or  big  bulky stuff that	literal	0
Ca n't carry it.	literal	0
do do walk back from town with, after all.	metaphorical	1
No I did that the other day yo	metaphorical	1
Struggled with it  a little 	metaphorical	1
I want some mincemeat.	literal	0
Get some up town, if that's what you want.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
She does n't really like his stuff.	literal	0
Mm  if you do n't mind.	literal	0
You want some mincemeat?	literal	0
Well yeah, no I've   light bulbs  I mean I could make you a list down but it does n't matter I can get that tomorrow Ann  I'll go down tomorrow  you know, I'll be up in time.	metaphorical	1
Just the thought 	literal	0
Yes fair enough  thanks very much.	metaphorical	1
 you did say that  you'd like to come.	literal	0
Yeah I did.	literal	0
You ought to  Rainbows  or something  got the car at least then	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Is that what you want?	metaphorical	1
Well I ca I ca n't think!	literal	0
 I ca n't   I ca n't really think  I'll have to make a list out  you know  but er  you know I got   just think of anything that's, you know  as I say I've got  got some fo  cat food  will get some dry cat food  yeah  Oh I cou sta if I start thinking I'll I'll I'll  	literal	0
Start thinking, got nothing lose, sta start	literal	0
Make a list, I'll get it for you.	literal	0
thinking we'll soon get them and save you carrying it tomorrow, then.	metaphorical	1
Get  and that and all's there anyway.	literal	0
Yeah cos I might I might not go up, you know, I see what Sheila says so 	metaphorical	1
Well that's it, if you do n't feel like walking round the town tomorrow.	metaphorical	1
Save you, save you carrying them.	metaphorical	1
I'll tell you what  I've I'm alright, but I feel a wee dizzy  you know I feel as if I'm a bit	metaphorical	1
no I'm alright Ann, I mean, feel a bit ba ah I mean I'm sorry I do have to buy a   feel a  bit of, I feel a bit dizzy  you know  as if I	metaphorical	1
you know I need new glasses or something, you know  that's how I feel.	metaphorical	1
A change your mind 	metaphorical	1
Hey yeah, 	literal	0
alright, yeah  I am o  I mean I'm not alright, I feel very dizzy, like I say I feel I feel a bit kind of  heady  you know  but I will go and have a check up.	metaphorical	1
I'll try again  bloody lucky!	literal	0
You see I mean	metaphorical	1
Lunch time is no good!	literal	0
 no, you s I've been trying all morning.	literal	0
Do n't start 	literal	0
If you Ann will you, I'm not, I'm	literal	0
we will go in and do it 	literal	0
I'll tell you what	literal	0
I'll tell you what I said  erm ah ah ah ah she's talking to herself, but Ann will get on to you she'll think I have n't done it!	metaphorical	1
I knew I'd be in trouble!	metaphorical	1
Well we'll we'll 	literal	0
We I'll call in	metaphorical	1
We'll call in, that will be better than phoning  at least you know whe you know you're gon na get there.	metaphorical	1
And I'll make appointment.	metaphorical	1
What for tomorrow, if possible?	literal	0
Whenever you wo I mean yo yo  bothered when when they'll wi wi wi will be, you know.	literal	0
If you ca n't get it done tomorrow  I'll try and get you a Doctor  so she	metaphorical	1
It's getting up there as well  lo, you know  I have n't got the strength and energy to walk there, I do n't think.	metaphorical	1
It's  we'll make it in the morning, one morning and then we can come out at erm	metaphorical	1
That a	literal	0
take you up.	metaphorical	1
What are you this week?	metaphorical	1
 I'm on.	metaphorical	1
Oh you're on lates this week.	metaphorical	1
Two till one.	metaphorical	1
Ah?	literal	0
Two till one.	metaphorical	1
Two till one, yes  I'll try again Ann.	metaphorical	1
No, do n't bother!	literal	0
 Sit!	literal	0
Ha!	literal	0
We'll call in.	metaphorical	1
We'll call in  	metaphorical	1
Well I mean it's not, it's not	literal	0
We'll call	metaphorical	1
an emergency, is it?	literal	0
No but  no but you want to see 	literal	0
Well just say  and just say that I had a bit of a ba an and I'd like a check over that's all  just say that to them  if you want  alright?	metaphorical	1
 Wh where's the estate agents anyway, you're going to here?	literal	0
There's	literal	0
Its in the 	literal	0
Do you get one of these Ann?	metaphorical	1
Sometimes.	literal	0
Oh they're, t you remember you were on about it yesterday about the services  they're all there.	metaphorical	1
 services are in are n't they?	metaphorical	1
They're all there	metaphorical	1
Let me see.	literal	0
whole lot.	metaphorical	1
Just want to  I just want a  that will do me	metaphorical	1
upstairs.	literal	0
Could you get i, get some of them?	literal	0
Do I get	literal	0
Well I mean I can get that up the end.	metaphorical	1
We'll get it in town while we're there mother!	literal	0
Might as well get it in town.	literal	0
 We're gon na be in	literal	0
Horse Fayre so	literal	0
Gon na be in  erm	literal	0
Oh eh there's a place there, no there is n't, is there?	literal	0
 The one that do the	literal	0
Gateways in Horse Fayre	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
Got Gateways, we're going to Horse Fayre	literal	0
Do you er  	literal	0
Oh you're going to you're going to Gateway.	literal	0
Going there anyway.	literal	0
We're in town, just in town  does n't matter where we go, does it?	literal	0
Well you can get  ah bring my mince back.	metaphorical	1
Budgie food  do you want any budgie food?	literal	0
Millet?	literal	0
 Sand sheets.	literal	0
No  no  got all that.	metaphorical	1
What else?	literal	0
No  get a couple of light bulbs.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I've got to get some, what sort of  will you need?	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
I I've had to bring	literal	0
yeah.	literal	0
you one, 	literal	0
No that's alright get me a	literal	0
get me a pack, you know.	literal	0
Sixty.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
You know.	literal	0
Sixty watt light bulbs	literal	0
Yeah  I've got a hat.	literal	0
Fags?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cheap fags or cheap 	literal	0
Yeah you can, yeah  I'll give you some money  light bulbs	literal	0
and mincemeat, that cos that ai n't very heavy to carry, in n it?	literal	0
Oh,  I think they're about two pound bag of that?	metaphorical	1
Yeah  yeah might as well  I'll make the mincemeat, mince pies this  and give you some Ann  that'll save you doing them, wo n't it?	metaphorical	1
When are you gon na make mince pies?	literal	0
Any time.	literal	0
Not today.	literal	0
Not today, why?	literal	0
 Cos he'll eat them, he'll be stood there waiting for them coming out of the blooming oven!	literal	0
  have some for tea.	metaphorical	1
 Mum do n't feel like making mince pies, today.	metaphorical	1
Well yo you'll have to er	literal	0
I'll make you some at home  got some	literal	0
Do n't forget	literal	0
mincemeat at home.	literal	0
You use that?	metaphorical	1
Do n't forget to get  er cooking apples.	literal	0
What did he sa he say?	literal	0
Do n't forget to get cooking apples, to put in the mincemeat.	literal	0
I've got some cooking apples out there  Oh is n't he, I could hit him!	literal	0
 Why does n't he make th make your own bloody mincemeat then!	metaphorical	1
Yeah that's cos I make the pa the pastry and you can 	metaphorical	1
Oh I'll do n't know I  pastry, I ca n't do that, I can do the rest but I ca n't make the pastry.	metaphorical	1
Have you got  in your hand    did I say, dry cat food?	literal	0
Dry cat food, light bulbs and mincemeat, 	literal	0
Aye?	literal	0
Want some ketchup?	literal	0
No, got some  	literal	0
Salt?	literal	0
 Tomato puree?	literal	0
What about flour and things, have you got enough flour to get	metaphorical	1
To do the mince pies.	literal	0
nutmeg?	literal	0
Oh I have n't got that long to make them, yet am I?	metaphorical	1
I know, but you shall have to bring it home wo n't you?	literal	0
You've got  you've got, you might as well buy a big  bag of flour and 	literal	0
flour and then  to carry home here.	literal	0
Go and have a look, see what you got.	metaphorical	1
Oh alright  	literal	0
Well you might as well, might n't you, and it'll save you	metaphorical	1
Yeah alright.	literal	0
carrying it.	literal	0
Yep, yep.	literal	0
At least you wo n't have to carry it, at least we've got the car and we can  we can	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
carry it between us, that's no problem is it?	literal	0
Yes, 	literal	0
Cos if you're not feeling up to it, as well  lard?	metaphorical	1
No it's the flour and  things like that we said it's	literal	0
You can buy	literal	0
 carry it home here.	literal	0
That's what I say, you buy three pound of flour and two pound of mincemeat in a jar.	literal	0
Yeah  and cat food and	literal	0
Do n't sound a lot of weight but	metaphorical	1
No I know  time you get it back here it is.	literal	0
Won it in the raffle  gon na have a drop in our tea, warm us up!	metaphorical	1
Oh  I  bloody won a bottle wine and   I could of won.	literal	0
John  come to me and he said is  that your number?	literal	0
You've won a bottle of whisky, Stuart said thank you.	literal	0
Oy!	literal	0
 That's my ticket, not yours  why are you saying thank you!	literal	0
I du n no just 	literal	0
I said to him I'll wrap it up and give you it for your Christmas present!	metaphorical	1
I paid for it did n't I, a pound in a draw.	metaphorical	1
Yeah I know.	literal	0
Christmas present, a pound.	literal	0
!	literal	0
Ha ha  Oh!	literal	0
Want to  it.	literal	0
Middle of the week.	metaphorical	1
Not that bad, that's it.	metaphorical	1
Not that bad.	metaphorical	1
First he's never seen, surprises he's always.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Very true.	literal	0
  especially on paper he	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 always such going on.	metaphorical	1
I know, yeah.	literal	0
 I'm not keen.	metaphorical	1
No  I've had 	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
 That's close!	metaphorical	1
 Here  Only me about me getting drunk, as if I would dear!	metaphorical	1
When?	literal	0
Anytime  But I remember bloody you coming in on a Sunday morning sometimes you, bloody can hardly  the bed!	metaphorical	1
Ha ha.	literal	0
What a bloody night was Stuart.	metaphorical	1
Shut up!	literal	0
  Thought you might know a  and all,  in about five minutes!	metaphorical	1
 But yeah, he told them!	literal	0
No I did n't.	literal	0
Yes you did.	literal	0
Shut up!	literal	0
You did.	literal	0
You probably did, not me.	literal	0
No I never  swore everybody to secrecy but they all know it  you   cos you told them!	metaphorical	1
 As you always still continue to tell them  yes you do.	literal	0
If I want it spread around.	metaphorical	1
That gives you your bit of character.	metaphorical	1
Yeah  ca n't grumble.	literal	0
Yeah, we do n't row, luckily, ha ha.	literal	0
Yes we do.	literal	0
World war    that bloody no good fool!	metaphorical	1
Must be that!	metaphorical	1
Can you blame him 	literal	0
I ca n't help	literal	0
What?	literal	0
be amazed.	literal	0
You replace the 	literal	0
We ai n't got a, just a mad man!	metaphorical	1
 He wo n't last for a ten now  done the, done the Welcome Break, they done the Char Grill, now they're on the Tescos.	metaphorical	1
Ca n't go any more, Ann.	literal	0
We got a thousand more  do a Sainsburys and that's it.	metaphorical	1
Yeah that's what Ann said.	metaphorical	1
That wo n't last till ten  I'd rather go and rack.	metaphorical	1
  never used to go on the 	literal	0
Oh it's  by the  the van   Teresa	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
and John  a bloody  at Tescos.	literal	0
If you ask me	literal	0
Why are they doing it, if it's not to do?	literal	0
I du n no, what can you do Ann!	literal	0
Ah yeah, that's my game.	metaphorical	1
Did you get?	literal	0
Got radio yes 	literal	0
Why are they doing all that and there's nothing to do?	metaphorical	1
Should of  I got a  somewhere.	literal	0
Well, you'll have nine  bulbs and lights out  got a thousand to do  Ann's had	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
Ann's had, Merv, John  Teresa, Paul and Vi's  all trussing  done the rest the of my trussing, I've done the Char Grill, I've done Welcome Break, now they're on the Tesco.	metaphorical	1
I've only got a thousand Sainsburys to do and we'll be all done by	metaphorical	1
Nine o'clock.	literal	0
or not long after  so why have they been doing that if there's nothing much to do?	metaphorical	1
Why is John,  and Ann and  Paul and Teresa and all them been on that trussing line, and Merv.	metaphorical	1
Probably trying to get ahead for that, one of those.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah, but I wonder if we're gon na all finished by nine o'clock and you'll have us all in your ha ha  ha	metaphorical	1
Do n't forget  Ann, in fact it's probably one of   and in the back.	metaphorical	1
Well we would, but we'll live.	literal	0
I've had a go but obviously not	metaphorical	1
Not much else to do.	literal	0
not much about  no.	metaphorical	1
Well, with all the trussing the might carry on trussing and get that done.	metaphorical	1
Or else we go in the afternoon and truss  your pvc.	metaphorical	1
I do n't know mate, o I only know that that's take us  Ann and Paul and Ann  and John  and all them all doing all the others so	metaphorical	1
We really ought to be going to some  to truss.	literal	0
There we go,  dear.	metaphorical	1
Ooh thank you.	literal	0
 that in your tea.	literal	0
Is there enough in that cup?	literal	0
I'm going.	literal	0
See you at my mums.	literal	0
But Stuart when we've done the  we're gon na book that.	metaphorical	1
Aunty Mary.	literal	0
Alright?	literal	0
Okey dokey  See you later dear.	literal	0
Yeah  see you at the car.	literal	0
Oh dear, oh Lord!	literal	0
 I better go and 	literal	0
Well we certainly wo n't last till ten, not	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
So we got a thousand letters to do that's all, well it might be over I do n't know they're  but	metaphorical	1
  is n't he?	literal	0
 Sort of jewellery you see.	metaphorical	1
Do they?	literal	0
 for Tesco and	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
 quite casual erm  Sainsburys.	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
 They've all finished early, they've   unless they  came in late with the order or something, extras or something.	metaphorical	1
I know five hundred and sixty was extra cos Stuart gave me two hundred short of a thousand.	metaphorical	1
Mm, cos somebody had n't  up wrong then  Where is she?	metaphorical	1
Probably ai n't calculated enough have they?	literal	0
No that's what I say if calculated wrong	literal	0
We're always out    they always tend	metaphorical	1
Mm	literal	0
to go over do n't they?	metaphorical	1
Yeah, little bit over.	metaphorical	1
And they probably do the  very small bags without.	literal	0
Yeah and that's.	metaphorical	1
Bags that were n't that have come over there and need a recount  Kerry!	metaphorical	1
Hiya.	literal	0
How's it going?	metaphorical	1
Not too bad.	literal	0
Are you on tea?	metaphorical	1
Yep, just going.	literal	0
Ten  ten fifty eight.	literal	0
I've go I've been in work  some of these	metaphorical	1
His next victims!	metaphorical	1
Ask yourself 	literal	0
They've gone on holiday.	metaphorical	1
Which one?	literal	0
Yeah and we're supposed to do all of them	literal	0
you see  put John, one of us start trussing early but we did n't need one  Ann's got another team in the  other room doing it.	metaphorical	1
There still in there.	literal	0
I'll I'll be finished before long.	metaphorical	1
Yeah?	literal	0
Well, about another hour.	metaphorical	1
Have we got some more Birds Eye pies up to truss?	metaphorical	1
Yeah	literal	0
they did n't do them!	literal	0
 Actually they perhaps let us go back on them then	metaphorical	1
Well	literal	0
tomorrow	literal	0
if you do that, I think perhaps that's the best kind of action, have a word with him and go down  I mean	metaphorical	1
You mean go back on them, cos we did n't finish them cos there was three pallets  and we did n't even do two.	metaphorical	1
There's only twelve with a  last week were n't there?	literal	0
We did n't finish them cos they wanted to start trussing early	literal	0
It's what you had last week.	metaphorical	1
and then Ann started that little line trussing you see, so we've  done it between us but  I've got a thousand to do and she's got about four d t	metaphorical	1
Ann, even if they do some 	literal	0
I bet you feel like a  now,   give them in when they ca n't truss them  du n no.	metaphorical	1
That I've only had	literal	0
We give them in when they came trussed with the though we had before.	metaphorical	1
It's not very heavy    Really to start a truss that's 	metaphorical	1
Well, with the two lines going yeah  would have been about right then but see, John  I do n't suppose he realised Ann was gon na  fetch all the people out of  here there and everywhere and start that up.	metaphorical	1
What did he do, did he say 	literal	0
Well I pa	literal	0
 Ann?	literal	0
No	literal	0
no so she started trussing, helping me.	literal	0
Yeah yeah but he would n't 	literal	0
I suppose that's what John thought, we might not get them done, start early and get them finished	metaphorical	1
That's good.	metaphorical	1
He just said leave the Bird's Eye pies and  start your trussing.	metaphorical	1
That was gone seven o'clock when 	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
By time we've cleared all that especially the	metaphorical	1
All that pvc, Ann!	metaphorical	1
   are fourteen.	literal	0
  and T D C  when we come in, I mean they had n't checked any goujons, they had n't checked any of the fillets.	literal	0
Bag here 	literal	0
Perhaps they'll get them.	literal	0
There was two baskets of bones.	literal	0
Fillet drums   	metaphorical	1
Jeanie and  Hilary are doing that.	metaphorical	1
Go back and get some more breadcrumbs 	literal	0
Yeah tha yeah and I mean  yeah  We'll definitely be finished in about an hour	metaphorical	1
 one.	literal	0
Wo n't be till ten anyway.	metaphorical	1
And  getting all the  Bird's Eye.	literal	0
Did n't we have a   we're getting 	literal	0
If we get in trainee.	literal	0
in the daytime  I'm going home I'm not putting up with  like that!	metaphorical	1
They did n't want me!	literal	0
Never mind  you got as far as you could,  so at least you got that far Deirdre.	metaphorical	1
I think I'll work nights only cos	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Joe and I mean I come a long way   and they said he told them I wan na pop in Friday morning before we go  He was surprised  He said well I were n't surprised, I said but er you know I want a name  yeah well, he just said well I ca n't  he ca n't fault me on anything.	metaphorical	1
Yeah it's just nice to know if there is something wrong	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
is n't there?	literal	0
Any	literal	0
Well, hang on a minute I said if I've got ta problem	metaphorical	1
time er, put it right.	metaphorical	1
 Yeah.	literal	0
if there's any weak stuff then I said	metaphorical	1
Er yeah	literal	0
I'll work it out 	literal	0
yeah you can	literal	0
and I can work on it.	metaphorical	1
yeah that's it.	metaphorical	1
Oh I went  we were absolutely    you know everybody claimed something	metaphorical	1
You know what he's like	literal	0
well he told me when I claimed	metaphorical	1
that sort of person	metaphorical	1
, you took three of them did n't you?	metaphorical	1
Who's that behind?	literal	0
He had Peter, he had that Peter who's	metaphorical	1
Peter, David, did n't they and	literal	0
David	literal	0
Over Cook's side, he only lasted about three more weeks, I mean	metaphorical	1
three weeks 	literal	0
Glenys has been doing it ever since, han	literal	0
 that	literal	0
Ian only last about three or four weeks, he was gone.	metaphorical	1
That one   he went did n't he?	metaphorical	1
Yep.	literal	0
And that Peter.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
He could n't even do your 	literal	0
He would n't d, he did n't wan na do it, did he?	literal	0
He took it back.	metaphorical	1
He said he wanted office.	literal	0
Ha!	literal	0
You know, I remember him	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
coming in cos John	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
said well you do what you did with him  and show  showing him how to do	literal	0
all the jobs, he said  I do n't want to learn them I've come to supervise, he said I do n't wan na get mucky!	literal	0
Oh no!	literal	0
I could n't believe my ears!	literal	0
 I said Oh!	literal	0
 So why John said would I show you how to truss nice, I do n't wish to learn thank you!	literal	0
Is that what he said to you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah he said I	literal	0
Oh I did n't know that!	metaphorical	1
He said he'd come to supervise, not to do it!	literal	0
 I've no no wish to learn it thank you.	literal	0
  I said, well fair enough, I'll go to do something else!	metaphorical	1
  See John when he we as soon as John arrived he said to me will you take me  he said, I do n't wan na learn it   proficiently but I want to know every job so I then took	metaphorical	1
And then watch	literal	0
up and down every line.	metaphorical	1
every line.	metaphorical	1
You got to expect to be	literal	0
and i and when this Peter come he said well you know, just show him  everything and  like you did me and  he said he did n't wan na know thank you.	metaphorical	1
I did n't know he said that to him!	metaphorical	1
Yeah he said	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
he said  I come to sup  be supervisor he said, I do n't know, I do n't wish to learn all that!	metaphorical	1
 Well can you supervise if you do n't know what the hell's going on!	metaphorical	1
I sa said to John	metaphorical	1
That's what John said, he wanted lo	metaphorical	1
I said last week	literal	0
so he good, a rough idea	metaphorical	1
John, I hope you do n't mind, I said  got ta call   he said you	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
he said you should have asked Jim	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
because it was between you and him,.	metaphorical	1
Well that's certainly my feeling  I'm naturally disappointed but it  I say, you did well and i er	metaphorical	1
Mick said to me last night, he said to me you can never fit  not used to it, but 	metaphorical	1
No point is there?	metaphorical	1
No there's certainly 	literal	0
That's it.	metaphorical	1
I said I've failed!	literal	0
 I said I just have n't got.	literal	0
That's it.	metaphorical	1
You're not forgiven!  	literal	0
No  I'm listening to them,   I'm doing a project.	metaphorical	1
Aha.	literal	0
I'm taping all your conversations  anyway	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
not in the factory  I did n't li, I could of asked Tom.	literal	0
What in here?	literal	0
Everywhere I go.	literal	0
Oh  I shall be quiet.	literal	0
It's all anonymous, you're not e e e nobody know who it is, it's for  it's for a dictionary and they want  new words that are commonly used  and they do n't want  and all old words that never get used it'll be dropped in the next edition of the dictionary.	metaphorical	1
I go I  anything.	literal	0
No it's er  I'm taping all my conversations I have with everybody for a week.	metaphorical	1
What if people do n't want you to?	literal	0
Oh yeah you you have to erase it  but nobody's gon na sa, I mean to say, nobody knows who you are, what you've said anyway  at all, do they?	literal	0
Well I do n't know, if you're just gon na  write down	literal	0
What?	literal	0
what you put on there and that	metaphorical	1
I do n't write anything, I send the tape in, they do n't know who you are  you're just a it's just a voice speaking  nobody knows who you are or anything, they only know me  nobody else.	metaphorical	1
 then! 	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
 Who's who's gon na know when they lis  to compile a dictionary and what words you use  who's gon na know who you are?	literal	0
Ha  du n no speaking	literal	0
That's all  well if you want it erased, I will I mean it's up to you entirely	metaphorical	1
Well you wo n't have any trouble with Jeanie.	metaphorical	1
but	literal	0
Ay, I I've I've said that to them I said well you might have, if I take to work you'll certainly hear some  they said tha well if that's common usage words that's  what it has to be  and words that we never use at all that are in dictionaries and nobody ever uses them, they want to know common  ordinary speech  words that we use.	metaphorical	1
Ca n't get more common than me!	literal	0
Ey I told them, I said you might hear some right a  I was in the pub Saturday night, mind I did tell afterwards  and he's ever such a nice bl fella  he comes over  door	literal	0
so he's killing himself laughing   I I've got to tell you Ron, I've been taping   he said I do n't give a monkeys you tape what, he said let them all hear, they'll all be able to pass it round!	metaphorical	1
It ai n't, well it was n't really disgusting but it 	metaphorical	1
Are you ready?	literal	0
 said he would n't.	literal	0
 I said I got a good joke for you here,  started to laugh and  he said I ai n't said it yet!	metaphorical	1
  Well I did n't tell him it  he can wind it  just erase it  I mean I do n't  I said I'm alright love  just to do all that, I've got twenty tapes!	metaphorical	1
 Someone asked me whether, I thought it'd be a bit of fun  But as I say nobody knows who you are, or what you've said or anything  so it does n't matter does it?	literal	0
 It's the words they're interested in, not what you actually say and the	metaphorical	1
words that yo people are using  I've got now, so I do n't even think of it, it's just there and  I just talk normal  that's the idea really  and if anybody asks you what you're doing, then you tell them and it  and you say, if you do n't wish to be on it, well	metaphorical	1
wipe it off  but nobody knows who you are anyway so what difference does it make?	metaphorical	1
 Unless it got personal, I'd turn it off, I mean  I mean when we went the estate agents and solicitors 	literal	0
Be Alan, be Alan Whicker!	literal	0
sort of sit there  putting what the solicitor said in your 	metaphorical	1
turn them off	literal	0
Or if anybody told me, I mean I would n't   and talking in confidence about their private life or	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
just turn them off, and that's it  Just normal conversations  the words that people use in common  different areas of the country, with accents and th  dialect and  one thing and another  it's for the Oxford English Dictionary  the next edition.	metaphorical	1
It is very old 	literal	0
I'm more than happy with something like that.	metaphorical	1
Do we  second hand suite   second hand suite, the whole lot.	literal	0
It's that  	literal	0
We go for a second hand suite as well or	metaphorical	1
a microwave.	literal	0
Go for a microwave or do you just go for	metaphorical	1
We've got nine hundred pounds approximately, after the cooker and the fridge.	metaphorical	1
Five hundred pound for carpets, leaves four hundred pound, two hundred pound for suite and the microwave 	metaphorical	1
 say, there's so many combinations that's the thing is n't it?	metaphorical	1
Yep.	literal	0
There are so many combinations of what to have, what to get, what we ca n't get, what we need really I think is, what we need is obviously going to be priority is n't it?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Carpets, cooker fridge	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
they're the definite needs and erm 	literal	0
That was eleven hundred pounds	metaphorical	1
approximately, you've got four hundred pound really to play with,   approximately four hundred pound  left over, say five hundred pound, six hundred for electrical goods.	metaphorical	1
Pardon?	literal	0
Seven hundred did you say, oh no two seventy nine and three twenty something were n't it?	literal	0
Yep.	literal	0
Er three, two	literal	0
About six hundred.	metaphorical	1
Six hundred, yeah.	literal	0
Six hundred for them two and five hundred for carpets.	literal	0
Eleven, you've got four hundred pound, you got   so it's a good second hand one or  a cheapy  no, well it would be a cheapy   I told him most of them around about seven hundred and ninety nine 	metaphorical	1
Decent 	metaphorical	1
A reasonable one, I mean you can go up to two thousand for a good one, but a reasonable one you would n't get nowadays under seven hundred and ninety nine  	metaphorical	1
I think you'd be better off with a  with a new cooker and fridge	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah, definitely I think 	literal	0
, you can go second hand	metaphorical	1
rather than go second, 	metaphorical	1
but, er, you know er, at least if you go in there at least you've got	metaphorical	1
got 	metaphorical	1
got a guarantee for six months	metaphorical	1
yeah, yeah, but 	literal	0
but, at least you know you're going to get a decent amount of 	metaphorical	1
Two or three years on the others.	metaphorical	1
As with a new one you'll probably gon na get four, five, six, seven, eigh 	metaphorical	1
I do n't like, just, I could n't be like Deirdre and, put me overall on and in go in without collecting me thoughts  getting myself together  Deirdre never arrives till about three minutes before she gets in the door, she's putting her overall on saying come on ladies, its time were, but she's putting her overall and  on, and they all sit there looking at her and so	metaphorical	1
they all sit there looking at her and saying bloody hell she ai n't got her own hat on, we've been here quarter of an hour and she walks in the door, takes her coat off and says come on ladies  you're suppose to be off your hind by two o'clock, leaving here at two 	metaphorical	1
She's right.	literal	0
I know she's right, but she should, set an example in some ways, mm  people are so used to her now they just look at her and carry on talking  silly old bugger, you know,, shut up Deirdre  I'm  do n't want to do that, should n't be, cos there was n't much to put on, although they left, left quite a bit off yesterday, they cut short, there was five hundred breast portion short and two hundred oyster eggs, so Deirdre informed me     but they injected six hundred too many  and four hundred eggs to Tescos  all quite ridiculous.	metaphorical	1
Pardon?	literal	0
Put them off today's	metaphorical	1
I know but it's just,  waste of time in it?  they'd been better spent to finish the order that they did have, and inject that, ha  oh be fair to do that to use though, no doubt they will, pick out all the things we did n't do right   bloody should done too many of this or not enough of that	metaphorical	1
Ah, yeah.	literal	0
 difference  was n't worth putting that down.	metaphorical	1
Not really, not this time of the day is it?	metaphorical	1
Mm, it would bounce up and down lik e a yo-yo 	metaphorical	1
Ca n't I do nothing?	literal	0
Lovely, thank you darling, oh we did n't get much further on  there, what we started with this morning, no  so 	metaphorical	1
Erm, I've left my bags at mums.	literal	0
Oh dear.	literal	0
.	literal	0
No,  working till twelve.	literal	0
Oh, it 	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
Yeah 	literal	0
Oh wow.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Seems like  	literal	0
 why you like you like to 	literal	0
Thank you darling	literal	0
Yeah alright, I'm off  next week 	metaphorical	1
That's that one, yeah,, yeah, oh and, Ann, Ann  that's 	literal	0
Yeah, John's already decided, that's alright.	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
yeah that's lovely, we did put in for some in February, we have this one in the  we have n't got a  cover that one.	metaphorical	1
We'll have to have one less	literal	0
  Oh, sorry 	literal	0
Women on there have to come off 	metaphorical	1
 oh no, hang on, no 	metaphorical	1
There's four days on now.	metaphorical	1
We'll have the Wednesday off when you cross   	metaphorical	1
Yeah    they have n't actually  February, she would of done, but	metaphorical	1
 be the same,  	literal	0
 decide on the Monday, so you'll have to cancel	metaphorical	1
the Wednesday then.	literal	0
cancel the Wednesday, cancel Wednesday, yeah, that will keep the  days and 	metaphorical	1
Thanks dear, 	literal	0
Yeah, can you put me down, the name down for the, alright, okay.	metaphorical	1
Right, thank you very much John	literal	0
Thank you, bye now 	literal	0
 order my 	metaphorical	1
Hello	literal	0
Hello  what the, have to  oh yes 	literal	0
Yeah, must be used to the   must do it sometime    	literal	0
Well at least you're not a 	literal	0
Er, 	literal	0
 were moving and one thing and another, there's so much to do.	metaphorical	1
Oh is there?	literal	0
Anyway I said to  I said I left today, I. 	metaphorical	1
That's the trouble when your at work and you got all 	metaphorical	1
Yeah it must be 	literal	0
You got ta be at work.	metaphorical	1
Yeah  do they? 	literal	0
Oh I  	literal	0
No, no, I come in the car, I was coming on the bus when I had this bloke next door doing some work like, I used to go out with him years ago, so he come in and had a cup of tea, I said, come in about half past eleven  went home at one, he come 	metaphorical	1
Hello girls	literal	0
Hello Stuart, are you alright?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Better 	literal	0
 he's got, he said he'd be better at ten o'clock.	metaphorical	1
Yes, I'll be better at ten o'clock, I shall be better at ten o'clock  by Friday  	metaphorical	1
I du n no who shall be the worst 	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 for the third of January, then he goes back  tenth cos his 	literal	0
Bloody hell, hello Dawn.	metaphorical	1
Hello.	literal	0
Good morning.	literal	0
Yeah I had somebody come round and stuck their bloody 	metaphorical	1
No	literal	0
Yeah, I did, so I have  	literal	0
Right then dear.	literal	0
Yeah  right as I'm gon na be for the time	literal	0
That's it in it?	literal	0
Hello Mr and Mrs	literal	0
Jean	literal	0
How are you?	literal	0
Very well thank you.	literal	0
Good, good, good.	literal	0
 is it in here?	literal	0
Yes, 	literal	0
Key, give us key.	literal	0
 is she? 	literal	0
No, but getting  	metaphorical	1
Might as well sit down for a few minutes might n't we?	literal	0
Yeah, we got five minutes.	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
.	literal	0
.	literal	0
They never got here, I was  all morning.	metaphorical	1
 but when you come and sit here at night 	metaphorical	1
Have you not been well Jo?	literal	0
Life's not 	literal	0
Was he, oh er, what was that did you eat something what you 	literal	0
Du n no, 	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Yeah, I'm going in as well darling.	metaphorical	1
Fine.	literal	0
.	literal	0
Ta, see you later on.	metaphorical	1
See you later on yeah, about er about the usual time	metaphorical	1
Yeah, usual time.	literal	0
 time.	literal	0
Hi ya	literal	0
Hello	literal	0
Sound cheesed off, what's the matter?	literal	0
I'm cheesed off.	literal	0
So am I, fed up, bored.	literal	0
 go back and  go back and take  when you go back.	metaphorical	1
Fed up, cheesed off 	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
Oh	literal	0
yes,  join you all 	metaphorical	1
I've got 	literal	0
I hope.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Why you cheesed off 	literal	0
This is strong	metaphorical	1
That's the way I feel, am I not allowed?	metaphorical	1
What, no, I thought there might be a reason  yeah but, 	literal	0
I'm on the P D C and it's  it's going and the phones  six baskets  about twenty baskets to be checked  minutes 	metaphorical	1
Should of been done any way.	literal	0
Should of been done had n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It only, pushing out the  lasts,  line, just emptied the line and he walked in.	metaphorical	1
She does n't stoop in and 	metaphorical	1
They did n't do any, they did one thou oh two thousand pounds each and one thousand of that was sovereign  	metaphorical	1
Me and  reckon that  up in the canteen.	metaphorical	1
They just use to  rest of it, yesterday, did n't I, last night.	metaphorical	1
All Dave's flavours were done  apart from the odd few extras,	metaphorical	1
No, I done that.	literal	0
they had, all they  was the roast  roast 	literal	0
  its all the frozen people's fault	literal	0
 I ca n't  spoonful.	literal	0
See, I do n't bother.	literal	0
and  roast puddings, roast  tikka twice  and a few extras.	literal	0
 many people.	literal	0
  so	literal	0
Well we could n't  so  I do n't know.	literal	0
 it was a big pub, oh yes.	literal	0
I du n no what's up I just, that closing date's tomorrow in n it?	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
   last week when we were on holiday.	metaphorical	1
Think up a good think for sponsor.	literal	0
It seems a funny day though.	metaphorical	1
Yeah well she's got to start  tomorrow  try.	literal	0
Whatever 	literal	0
It's  up 	metaphorical	1
Sounds like.	literal	0
No, I've never heard that before, put your name down for your Christmas lunch 	metaphorical	1
I would of thought it had been easier to erm  to put down the name of 	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
oh there 	literal	0
what you want   what you want,   Could be a, now.	literal	0
What was it last year was on Thursday?	metaphorical	1
 have it tea time  Oh, we, probably have it about five o'clock everybody, and Lyn and Michael come in early and have theirs as well.	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
Think  later, be about five o'clock or quarter to five, or something like that depends when it's on,  have to come in early if they want to have it with us.	metaphorical	1
We'll try one to one.	metaphorical	1
Of course   got to cook so,  depending on  it will be about five o'clock so that they can get washed up.	metaphorical	1
Probably.	literal	0
I'll tell her not to cook.	literal	0
Yeah, well 	literal	0
Any thing pastry you know,.	literal	0
I cook for Stuart and I do n't eat it.	literal	0
I do n't, I cook for Stuart, but I do n't eat it.	literal	0
So I mean, I still cook for Stuart, he still eats, even though I do n't have it,.	literal	0
I could n't.	literal	0
No, no, not when it comes to  pastry, a nice bit of apple pie and	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah	literal	0
, yeah.	literal	0
Mind you, when we were over 	metaphorical	1
What they gon na, what they gon na  by the pound?	metaphorical	1
No, you wan na  pound.	literal	0
What they doing another sponsored slim are they?	literal	0
I wished I'd of done when I lost all my weight	metaphorical	1
And we're gon na do it, for, for a	literal	0
when I lost my six and a half stone	metaphorical	1
mammogram thing for the hospital.	metaphorical	1
What are they doing, having another one, what Wisbech or the one at 	metaphorical	1
No, no, we just bought it up	metaphorical	1
Yes, I think it 	literal	0
Well it will be the local hospital that does all that	metaphorical	1
They've got one at  cos I mean I went and had one so there must be one, another one	metaphorical	1
No, it's  I think, 	literal	0
unless it for, it must be for Wisbech	literal	0
It might be for Wisbech one, they've gone to, cos erm, I mean they've got two at Lynn, so it must be Wisbech	metaphorical	1
So its probably 	literal	0
Ah	literal	0
Just make sure you squeeze their knickers off, make them  	metaphorical	1
 would you? 	literal	0
I probably come on with, on, on, on you with it after Christmas as well cos I'll probably put some back on	metaphorical	1
Yeah, we'll do it for three months	literal	0
over Christmas.	metaphorical	1
three months 	literal	0
It will take me bleeding years to reach my goal	metaphorical	1
Why I've been, it will be ten months that's all Rita, ten month it took me to lose six stone, you do n't want to lose that much do you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah, Tina can go on it.	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
You're going on a sponsored slim	metaphorical	1
Sponsored slim	literal	0
after Christmas, er and Val and me	metaphorical	1
No, going on holiday	metaphorical	1
It's for a good	literal	0
she's going on holiday in January	metaphorical	1
You'll have all them warriors chasing you round the jungle, they have their little blow pipes 	literal	0
Yeah, ooh, all them dingle dangles yeah	literal	0
they're not, they're not little either, I saw a film and it was hanging past his knee caps 	literal	0
 good to use them for swinging in the trees.	literal	0
That's  in it.	metaphorical	1
No, that's what everybody thought 	metaphorical	1
 blush then.	literal	0
Yeah 	literal	0
Trade you in for a couple of camels, he'd come home with a couple of camels	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I 	literal	0
She'll, she'll think that's an elephant's trunk in her pocket and she wo n't realize 	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
 you ai n't blushed like that for a long while  have you?, yeah, that will be a holiday, watch your camp bed do n't fold up love 	metaphorical	1
I say, I'd 	literal	0
, I'm only telling you what to expect you know, when you go on holiday	metaphorical	1
Been there	literal	0
Eh?	literal	0
Mm, you watched	literal	0
I've been there, yeah.	literal	0
You wan na watch them old mowmows yeah, they come there with their little carving knives, yeah, cut all the dangly bits off   that, that's right though in n it,	metaphorical	1
 shut up	literal	0
you tell her.	literal	0
.	literal	0
shut up.	literal	0
It's impossible.	literal	0
They get them little knives 	literal	0
You be 	literal	0
Yeah, I've had an away day today, I never said a gay day, I said an away day.	metaphorical	1
You finished eating?	literal	0
Why, what you gon na buy me?	literal	0
What?	literal	0
You done?	metaphorical	1
 why what you speak to me, what were you saying?	metaphorical	1
That erm	literal	0
Well	literal	0
 for	literal	0
You should of said well alright, I'll take them away then   took them right away then, 	literal	0
Take a bit of interest, what's going on 	metaphorical	1
Somebody 	literal	0
Make the most of it.	metaphorical	1
Just let her do it.	literal	0
Yeah, 	literal	0
I've got another weight watcher's order form,  four,  	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
 look as though you book it then 	literal	0
Yeah, you do n't want to  do n't miss out on any thing do you?	metaphorical	1
She's got ta eat.	literal	0
Got to eat 	literal	0
Chips, fish	literal	0
Yeah and you feel like a bleeding rabbit.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, you get bored.	literal	0
Especially when you have to have a bit of salad cream on  	literal	0
Well I do n't feel   	literal	0
Fair enough, I think I  work	metaphorical	1
She's investing it for her.	literal	0
Yeah, I 	literal	0
What  now?	literal	0
, 	literal	0
You, getting all  put some back in, I need some  by six o'clock, I said  comes at six thirty, you ca n't have it we're bloody cooking, any way  I though you done  John's said his got  because  come on.	metaphorical	1
 John's told me to tell you to go and get it, right  I said  I said Richard  coming, for four hundred pound I  you're not coming for it so that's it  oh  you think it was  pub machine or	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
 well if it is n't, well what can you do?	literal	0
I ca n't make the machine go any bloody quicker, well I can, but I  so what's the point in that   come and have a look at it and then they said come back and do it when you  on the skin, you know the skin  bring it forward  well it do n't go back, it just gets all tangled.	metaphorical	1
He come in Saturday, not that he, we've heard all that before, said that  you can get  give it a good wash and squeeze it back, that  I ca n't put one on now, give me a ring when you're done	metaphorical	1
, so we've been doing a few  need a good wash 	literal	0
Monday's the twenty third, Sunday's the twenty second	literal	0
 nothing to do with, he stood there, he said, it's not working, and he paid the bloody bill  I put them on right.	metaphorical	1
Same old story      getting it underneath  cos they're going higher up and underneath 	metaphorical	1
 last week, we ought to go 	literal	0
Oh yeah, yeah.	literal	0
Did n't tell us about that one did you?	metaphorical	1
Everyone starts on me	metaphorical	1
 what's happen with the.	literal	0
They have n't mentioned it this year, have they?	metaphorical	1
No, 	literal	0
Have they?	literal	0
Yeah, 	literal	0
Yeah, but  last year 	literal	0
Oh we were waiting and waiting in the end we got in the car.	metaphorical	1
Oh we're being 	literal	0
I was gon na drive anyway 	literal	0
We'll be at mum's anyway, so	literal	0
I take  I take, only occasionally I go mad and let ripe and have quite a few, other times I just be on an orange juice and lemonade 	metaphorical	1
but the other, the other do I really made 	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
You've been to see him have n't you?	literal	0
How is he?	literal	0
Be alright?	literal	0
Well the two 	literal	0
er three days, I've asked Dave 	literal	0
Mm, mm.	literal	0
Did he know you were going?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Dates from the last day of 	metaphorical	1
, not too bad.	literal	0
At least you keep in touch, some of them get shoved away and they never, nobody do n't bother with them do they? 	metaphorical	1
 the worst  yeah	literal	0
Yeah and its cost us forty two	literal	0
 ticket up	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
 on what tickets?	metaphorical	1
Well, like I say if I want to bring my family, I've got to pay five pound which	metaphorical	1
Five pound, yeah	literal	0
yeah.	literal	0
Go and get nine tickets, or I start right up all the bloody year round for that.	metaphorical	1
Well, that's what I said.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, we pay all the year round for that do n't we and that's all we bloody get out of it.	metaphorical	1
I mean it's 	literal	0
When my Helen comes,  she's got ta pay	literal	0
No, you have 	literal	0
Yeah, I already told that.	metaphorical	1
Why it is, it's very, very, very wrong, say we pay all year round for that, I've paid for a year for my ticket	metaphorical	1
Nobody asked for my clock number when mine and Stuart's, just gave me me ticket.	literal	0
You've just got to give, you know, we've put by  and we said.	literal	0
Nobody put, nobody asked for mine or Stuart's it's just	literal	0
When, when I went to get my tickets she said	literal	0
I had eight	literal	0
picking me at half past seven tonight love.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
And then we'll go for a drink first and then we'll go to the Indian restaurant.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Our Carl wanted to know what, why you were going?	literal	0
Did he?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
What did he say?	literal	0
He said oh, he said, what are they celebrating?	literal	0
I said nothing!	literal	0
Well he said well it seems funny they're going out does n't it?	literal	0
Well I said, well as far as I know, I said nothing, they're not celebrating anything.	metaphorical	1
Should have said to him, you never take dad out for a curry so Kevin's going.	metaphorical	1
Tt.	literal	0
Oh Gordon!	literal	0
He has taken you out.	literal	0
Yeah, about  four years ago?	metaphorical	1
You're  very ungrateful!	literal	0
Well he's taken us out when they've been to bloody shop working and come back and wa I admitted that, but I mean just to go out for an evening.	metaphorical	1
I mean, he never says to me go and have a, do you wan na go for a pint or  wan na go for a curry or owt  does he?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Well we do n't see him much now do we?	literal	0
Well, I'm not, I'm not bothered about it.	metaphorical	1
It does n't worry me.	metaphorical	1
Well  who wants to go out with a doddery old bugger like me anyway!	literal	0
Surprised Kevin wants to, surprised Kevin wants to go.	literal	0
Well it's	literal	0
Could go on to the rugby and go with them could n't he?	literal	0
Well	literal	0
Eh?	literal	0
yeah.	literal	0
Instead of a doddering old bugger like who's miserable!	literal	0
Well  well he has n't got a father so he regards you does n't he?	metaphorical	1
If you wan na take it that way. 	metaphorical	1
If  if Labour say get in	metaphorical	1
if Labour get in and they ca n't fulfil their promises	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
like John Smith's made promises then that  Conservatives have n't done this, that and the other, he must be able to do them now must n't he?	metaphorical	1
Who must?	literal	0
John Smith.	literal	0
Well erm, they, they do n't know whether they can do it or not do they?	literal	0
No, but he's criticizing the Conservative policies and all that, and what we will do is this.	metaphorical	1
I know  for investment	metaphorical	1
Yes but they all say that	metaphorical	1
industry	literal	0
do n't they until they get into power?	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
And the and then  they all	literal	0
They do.	literal	0
Back down.	literal	0
They do.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
They'll say they, they probably have n't got the finances to back up what they  what they said they would do.	metaphorical	1
Yeah but a lo a lot of  quotes gon na be made to them after are n't there?	metaphorical	1
You know, like you said this and you have n't done it, you said that and you have n't done it and all that sort of.	metaphorical	1
Yes but once they're in power there's nothing you	metaphorical	1
Well	literal	0
can do about it.	metaphorical	1
oh admittedly no.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
But they must feel a bit stupid to er	metaphorical	1
Well I ca n't  well I mean there's an awful lot, I mean  would, no, no matter which political party  it is, they all make promises, but they do n't carry them all out.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Course not.	literal	0
But I mean these are, these are major things.	metaphorical	1
Getting the economy right.	metaphorical	1
Now John Smith	literal	0
But er  well John may have	literal	0
we'll get the economy right.	metaphorical	1
Now if he does n't get the economy right he's gon na end up with egg on his face and	metaphorical	1
Of course he is.	literal	0
But you tell me how  just how is he going to do it?	literal	0
I mean, ee, they do n't explain to you how they're going to do it do they?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
They, they just come out wi a er	literal	0
With statements.	literal	0
glibly with these, these statements.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I'm sure that e e if there is an easy way of doing it the Conservatives would have found out  and done it.	metaphorical	1
I do n't think there's any  any easy way.	metaphorical	1
I do n't see how they're going to do it.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
I really do n't.	literal	0
 I mean where are they going, where are they going to get the extra money from  er to pay for the old aged pensioners' er  eight pound rise?	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Or so they say, we'll get eight pound.	metaphorical	1
Somebody's got to pay for it.	metaphorical	1
So it'll be the working people, er, probably the  the national er, health stamp'll have to go, go up.	metaphorical	1
 It'll be a sorry day if they get in.	metaphorical	1
 It will Gordon.	literal	0
  Oh!	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
You're a real turncoat you are.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Are n't you?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I was listening today to erm  a man on the radio and he was only thirty four and he had a stroke  and they were saying  he, they er, they were asking him, they said well how did it happen?	metaphorical	1
They said, did you have any warning?	metaphorical	1
And he said no.	literal	0
None at all he said.	literal	0
I was gardening  and he said er er  I bent over to do something and he said I just went dizzy, he said, and I fell over  he said and then I realized my right side was paralysed.	literal	0
And he said I was completely confused and  I could n't, he said I was trying to shout  my wife  and erm  and, er, you know my mouth would n't work, he said, but she said fortunately she looked through the window and er found him and they took him to hospital.	metaphorical	1
And they were saying, they were saying that, you know, you associate strokes with older people, but there's  a hundred young people a week  have strokes!	metaphorical	1
Tt.	literal	0
Aye.	literal	0
And he said erm  like it's  the clots to your brains that erm  that cause it, you know.	literal	0
They said, well did you have any warning about it?	metaphorical	1
And he said er, no, he said I did n't think I had he said, but now, he said I realized that how I, was forgetting er  I'd be talking and I'd forget sort of  what I was just talking about that split second.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And now the stroke has affected him that way.	metaphorical	1
He can be talking, say about a  well, you know, about any er, about sa say a, a video recorder or something like that	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
and for a minute he can forget that he's talking about it.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
You know, but erm  he sa he's recovered reasonably well in the same, you know, but	metaphorical	1
Got his use	metaphorical	1
very	literal	0
back?	metaphorical	1
er, partly back.	metaphorical	1
Partly back.	metaphorical	1
Not fully.	literal	0
You know.	literal	0
Thirty four!	literal	0
I know!	literal	0
I mean you just do n't  you do n't imagine that do you really?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
It's terrible!	literal	0
But a hundred young people a week!	literal	0
I mean, I, I could n't believe it when they were saying that.	metaphorical	1
That's terrible!	metaphorical	1
It is.	literal	0
 It's an awful thing.	metaphorical	1
See I've never, I've never across anyone that like know you.	metaphorical	1
What do you mean?	literal	0
Well I've known anyone to be five years and no use whatsoever.	literal	0
Ah well, and Aun I mean Aunty Lilly was like that Gordon.	metaphorical	1
She never got her use back and she never spoke again.	metaphorical	1
Yeah but she did n't, well she did n't live long after her stroke did she?	metaphorical	1
Oh she did, you know.	literal	0
Er, not as	literal	0
Mind, she was in bed all the time.	literal	0
Oh she was in bed all the time.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
How long did she live after the stroke?	metaphorical	1
Only months were n't it?	literal	0
Oh no!	literal	0
Oh no!	literal	0
It was n't months Gordon.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I mean she was in Park Hospital for so long and then she was transferred to a nursing home in Thornton.	metaphorical	1
Er do yo do n't you remember us ta taking Iris and Ian down  to see her?	metaphorical	1
I did n't see her did I?	literal	0
No we did n't go in, but Iris and Ian did.	literal	0
Did he?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Well I, I, we, I, I drove them there.	literal	0
You was with me.	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
Yes!	literal	0
Well I reckon she lived er a couple of years after the stroke Gordon.	metaphorical	1
I mean, and she was in a terrible, I mean she could n't even speak!	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I mean, er erm  and I went to see her in Park Hospital and she was very frustrat very frustrated because she could n't speak.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
What was she doing in Park Hospital?	literal	0
She took ill at Aunty Edith's.	metaphorical	1
Well was it Edith's?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I th I think they'd been on holiday and, she took ill on the holiday  and, and came erm, she was stopping at erm, Edith's and er  it happened then.	metaphorical	1
Well, you know, I ca n't recall any of this.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Did we, we go to Edith's to see her then did we not?	literal	0
No, but I went to Park Hospital to see her.	literal	0
Because Edith  now Edith was going away for some unknown reason, I do n't know, she must have been going on another holiday anyhow.	metaphorical	1
No, she was in Park Hospital a long time.	metaphorical	1
That was it, because  Edith was going on another holiday and she was er, she wanted someone to go and visit  er Lilly, and I said well I'll go.	metaphorical	1
And I, I, it was when I had my own car and I drove there.	literal	0
And I wanted to see her.	literal	0
She was very, very frustrated cos she could n't speak.	literal	0
Mm!	literal	0
And she could n't write anything down.	literal	0
 I do n't think you saw her actually.	literal	0
I do n't think I did.	literal	0
I never recall seeing her when she was ill.	metaphorical	1
Never.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Well you must have been going during the day while I was at work then.	literal	0
No, it was night time I went, cos I was working.	literal	0
Well why in the bloody hell I did n't go then?	metaphorical	1
Why did n't I go with you?	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
Was it night school or something like that, or what?	metaphorical	1
I do n't know.	literal	0
I think you we d' ya know I think you were at night school Gordon when I think about it.	metaphorical	1
I think you were teaching at night school.	literal	0
It must have been something I was doing.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
I know why Gordon.	literal	0
Because the ba the children were small.	metaphorical	1
Yo one of us had to stay in.	literal	0
Oh yes.	literal	0
Aye, that's right.	metaphorical	1
Of course, yes.	literal	0
You know, I mean, they were only small.	metaphorical	1
Aye, that's right.	metaphorical	1
 Did we live in Ashton Lane then?	literal	0
Erm  no, we were here.	literal	0
Were we?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 Well I did n't have my own car in Ashton Lane.	literal	0
No you did n't.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
So we was here.	literal	0
Well, about nineteen seventy then, seventy one.	metaphorical	1
No you got your licence in erm  was it, it were early in the year when you passed your test?	metaphorical	1
Yes I think it was.	literal	0
Well it were seventy one.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Cos did n't you phone me at Lillycups to tell me?	literal	0
Yes I think I did.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Well I was only at Lillycups from August seventy till August seventy one.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Only a year.	literal	0
And if you phoned me early in the year it must have been  just after we got the V W.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
I think it was.	literal	0
 Just a  couple	metaphorical	1
So	literal	0
of months after we got that 	metaphorical	1
I think it was because er th cos we'd got Iris' er  er Triumph did n't we?	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Soon after that.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
I think we did Gordon.	literal	0
And you were driving that about.	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Well Carl had n't passed 	metaphorical	1
And you went, you went in that Triumph did you to the	metaphorical	1
I did.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Well it's ser te it was later than seventy one you see.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And you had that car about two years did n't you?	metaphorical	1
Oh yes.	literal	0
Perhaps a bit longer.	literal	0
Two years?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Because I came, I came to er  Dellasel	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
when Carl passed his er, to M G S.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Do you remember?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Blimey!	literal	0
Do you mean, must be about twenty years ago then?	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Yeah about twenty.	metaphorical	1
 This is why you know, I, I think you should keep di I keep diaries from years ago because  I know you do n't like nostalgia, and I do n't, but it's interesting	metaphorical	1
Mm mm.	literal	0
to look up.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Er, events.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
I mean I've got no diaries dating back that long.	metaphorical	1
No, I know.	literal	0
Well I have n't.	literal	0
I have no record of anything	literal	0
No.	literal	0
happening then.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
But just one line of things that  you know, I do n't mean a diary where you write a page every night, but just two lines  you know.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
All, and what you did and  when I got the car, the date and  when you got that Triumph then.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You know, little, just a line.	metaphorical	1
And then when you look at it er ca you can recall then	metaphorical	1
Oh yes.	literal	0
other things.	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
The one line sort of sets it all off, you can remember.	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Yes but I remember, I can remember Edith phoning me and, and saying, you know she was going away, you know is, you know could I go down?	metaphorical	1
And I said yes.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I, cos I remember coming, coming back, I got lost.	metaphorical	1
You know where er  that circle is where there's the shops, well instead of taking  I know, instead of taking one road I took another and I got completely lost!	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I would n't now, but then I, I, I did n't know er round that area.	metaphorical	1
No that's right really, I mean if you do n't know the area you do n't know which road to take on the islands.	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
 But I mean, you would n't have thought that Ed er Lilly, I mean, she had no weight on her or anything like	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
that did she?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
She's always been active all her life.	literal	0
All, been active all her life.	literal	0
 No, you ca n't understand how these things happen.	metaphorical	1
Well they give you all these bloody tips and papers about what to do, to avoid this and avoid that.	metaphorical	1
And what to eat and everything but	literal	0
This bloody footballer, I mean it's a	metaphorical	1
I know!	literal	0
a really fit man.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
He's, er, one artery was seventy percent blocked, it was in the paper.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
And the other artery was ninety percent blocked.	literal	0
Was it really?	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
Good God!	literal	0
I mean, he could have gone an any time.	metaphorical	1
Graham Sounness, I mean he's only thirty eight!	literal	0
Could have gone any time with  with nothing through his bloody arteries!	metaphorical	1
Good God!	literal	0
But that's incred I did n't know it was that bad.	metaphorical	1
It was in the paper this morning.	metaphorical	1
And er	literal	0
Goodness me!	literal	0
Well he's a, he, he did n't smoke.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
He was an athlete.	literal	0
He's been an athlete.	literal	0
He obviously ate like everybody else.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
And he	literal	0
I mean	literal	0
was n't overweight in any way.	metaphorical	1
Was n't overweight, what more 	literal	0
No.	literal	0
the bloody hell do you have to do!	metaphorical	1
That's incredible that!	metaphorical	1
See they say it was a ma it's hereditary.	metaphorical	1
Well	literal	0
Cos his father had a bypass did n't he?	metaphorical	1
Oh did he?	literal	0
I think some other relative died er	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
youngish.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Oh well  I bet, I think perhaps it is really.	metaphorical	1
   I know.	literal	0
It's still going?	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
Yeah, and you ca n't, you ca n't understand it can you really?	literal	0
Well look at the old lady that walks past here at ninety one!	metaphorical	1
That's right, yeah.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
And she does all her own shopping.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
You know, I mean, she keeps stopping but she's, she's remarkable!	literal	0
She really is.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
But they're few and far between are n't they?	metaphorical	1
When th you're like that.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
But what I could n't understand with this Soun this fella that	metaphorical	1
This Sounness?	metaphorical	1
Aye.	literal	0
He, he found out cos he went for, to, for a check up and they took his blood pressure.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
And tha well lots of people go and have blood pressure taken, they find it's high, and they	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
give them tablets.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Go home.	literal	0
Why did they take it a stage further with him?	metaphorical	1
He'd got high blood pressure, he was n't in any pain  he's living a normal life.	metaphorical	1
Similar to what I was when I went.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
And they just give me tablets.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Now why, what made them take it to the stage	metaphorical	1
Well  er well, first	literal	0
where, he wanted a heart bypass?	literal	0
first and foremost he was in a private scheme.	metaphorical	1
Well, pro probably that's it then.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
A and probably because i because of his father and er  the rela the other relative  having the bypasses done.	metaphorical	1
So they took it	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
a step further, but I think probably, it's because he was in er  er a private scheme.	metaphorical	1
Very likely in n it?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
So there's a lot of people walking about with just taking bloody tablets who probably really should have a by bypass.	metaphorical	1
Ah well I, well,   I would n't say that really Gordon.	metaphorical	1
I mean I think  er, when your blood pressure was found out and you'd been taking tablets ever, so, I think it's kept it all under control and you've, you, we eat a sensible diet.	metaphorical	1
The only, the only er  thing I complained about with you is, is the butter.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
I do n't have that much now.	metaphorical	1
But I think everything in moderation, but you do n't eat as much butter now as what you used to.	metaphorical	1
I do n't eat that much bread you see.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
So I, I think really, and I think  what I think with him, I think definitely I think it must be the private scheme and plus that his own family, it runs in the family.	metaphorical	1
Mm mm.	literal	0
Must be hell of a shock being told	metaphorical	1
Oh God!	literal	0
It must have been.	literal	0
 See how much it's costing?	metaphorical	1
Two hundred and fifty pounds a night!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Phworgh!	literal	0
That's without the operation.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Well he earned three hundred and fifty thousand a year then.	literal	0
Oh I know.	literal	0
And plus he's, he, he, he, he married an heiress you know.	literal	0
Did he?	literal	0
Er him er, sh they live in Spain now.	literal	0
Oh er he, he's worth a pretty penny is Sounness.	metaphorical	1
He went in Carl's shop the other, the other week.	literal	0
Did he?	literal	0
Yes!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Must have been looking for a house.	metaphorical	1
Carl said he, he looked er well er, his face did, it were very  he's got a very poxy skin.	literal	0
Has he?	literal	0
You kno mm.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 He was having it done this afternoon were n't he?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Some time today.	literal	0
Aye.	literal	0
I tell you what, that's quick int it though Gordon?	metaphorical	1
With only going in last night and	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
having it done today.	metaphorical	1
It is indeed.	literal	0
We I wonder how quick they would have got him in though if he would n't have been in a private scheme.	metaphorical	1
He could wait six months could n't he?	literal	0
Well he could have been dead by then.	metaphorical	1
Well er, yeah, e exactly that's what they're moaning about int it?	metaphorical	1
Terrible!	literal	0
Put them on a list and wait.	metaphorical	1
 I've never heard so much talk about health  as we do nowadays.	metaphorical	1
Oh I know.	literal	0
When I was young I co I do n't remember talking all the time about bloody  health and  what you should do and what you should n't do.	metaphorical	1
No I know.	literal	0
Did you?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
But we were n't educated in, in, in health though.	metaphorical	1
We just li we just lived and that was the end of it.	metaphorical	1
Yes but then you see, in the ol in the old days Gordon, I mean, you we you were very fortunate if you got three meals a day  and i and whatever you got you were glad of  and used to eat it all.	metaphorical	1
Now  we're much more affluent  and people are educated we er	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
as regards their health.	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
Well th having said that Gordon, your mother lived to a good old age, and my mum, and my father did.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
And they ate all the wrong stuff did n't they?	literal	0
According to wha according to what they say now they did.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
 Do n't know who to believe really.	literal	0
When you look at, when you look at the  some, all these, a lot of these composers and artists who died long ago  and you look the birth range  there's a hell of a lot at seventy five, seventy six	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
a oh there's a few at forty odd.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
But there's a hell of a lot  well into their seventies.	metaphorical	1
You know, and they were born early eighteen hundreds.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
I know we're living longer now generally but  I wonder how much	literal	0
I do n't know I	literal	0
I wonder	literal	0
you know	literal	0
how much, how much, I do n't really know.	literal	0
Cos there's more people now than there was in those days.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, there's a lot more people.	metaphorical	1
 It's not anyhow, I mean, it's alright living longer if you, if you, if you've got all your faculties.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And you've got good health and everything.	metaphorical	1
It's no use living like a cabbage, I do n't think so anyhow.	metaphorical	1
No, that's	metaphorical	1
And when I see these people in nursing homes all sat round a wall in chairs  oh God!	metaphorical	1
I'd hate to end up like that.	metaphorical	1
Somebody's.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
Left the gate open.	literal	0
Did you?	literal	0
 I wonder who's that?	metaphorical	1
I'll check.	literal	0
Has a leaflet come through.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
I bet there has.	metaphorical	1
Tell you what, the Conservative candidate's not been round has he?	literal	0
No he dare n't.	literal	0
That, I ordered that one.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
That one?	metaphorical	1
Well, but it's only er er  record book.	literal	0
 You were saying	literal	0
How did the bar  go?	metaphorical	1
Do n't know.	literal	0
Just trying to	literal	0
Have you got any?	literal	0
Do n't be sil  do n't be silly!	literal	0
The ultimate collection of your favourite.	literal	0
You have to make one order.	metaphorical	1
You could  ca n't be far off nine hundred then?	metaphorical	1
Six?	literal	0
I've never seen a Saturday go so fast.	metaphorical	1
Yeah it  well I, come on!	metaphorical	1
Anything goes fast after Friday.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
It's not so much that it	literal	0
Seven fifty.	literal	0
 Two  two pound fifty.	literal	0
Just over.	metaphorical	1
Mind you, I thought  oh yeah.	literal	0
Two hundred people.	literal	0
I	literal	0
So two hundred paid tonight?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
About hundred and  eighty paid.	metaphorical	1
Feels like a hundred and fifty and   get out of it.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 Twenty fi I mean last week there was a hundred sixty  in  and that was actually up on the previous couple of weeks, just	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
in er	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Was n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Well I mean, January	literal	0
It is  getting quite	metaphorical	1
people are getting paid again.	metaphorical	1
getting paid again.	metaphorical	1
People have got some money again.	literal	0
I du n no, I, I, I think the Friday nights, mostly on the Friday nights.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, might well do.	metaphorical	1
Might well do.	metaphorical	1
Please can I have my twenty five I'm owed for  like  two weeks?	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
Two weeks.	literal	0
Well I do n't, mine's got ta go in the cleaners	metaphorical	1
Yeah, well 	literal	0
Oh I need some	literal	0
I have to clean them up, I'll have to	literal	0
Yeah I know.	literal	0
take it to the cleaners 	literal	0
I know, I might get some	literal	0
so it's not the fucking cleaner.	literal	0
I'm gon na get some cleaning, I'll get some cleaning fluid this week.	metaphorical	1
You know which one it, it is, it sort of activated one.	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
You're gon na kill somebody one day you know using that!	metaphorical	1
Bloody.	literal	0
I give them a, I did give them a good rinse afterwards though.	metaphorical	1
It's gon na have to	literal	0
It was 	literal	0
it's gon na have to be erm  erm  dub dub wurgh wurgh erm  tt  I can get a delivery on Thursday, I need, we need a delivery on Thursday anyway	metaphorical	1
It, yes.	literal	0
when we're open  so I'll get a delivery on Thursday and I'll get some er	metaphorical	1
Well I'll do the delivery if you want	literal	0
cleaner	literal	0
I'll do the delivery when I've	literal	0
bit of cleaner.	metaphorical	1
Okay.	literal	0
Yeah, so that's an, an idea for 	literal	0
Glasses.	literal	0
Yeah, we run out of pints again tonight.	metaphorical	1
Well we did n't run out, we run out of  but there was quite a few outside in the	metaphorical	1
I should hope so!	literal	0
I know, but I'm loathed to give them out.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Unless I know who's getting them.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Seventy five  where are on now?	literal	0
Ten	literal	0
And black Ashley came in.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 I thought Laura was coming behind the bar to fucking us support.	metaphorical	1
I know what Laura was	literal	0
What?	literal	0
drinking.	literal	0
She walked behind the bar, got herself a drink and went and fucking sat and watched us!  	literal	0
Mm!	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
The little pratt	literal	0
Obnoxious	literal	0
dickhead!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
   yeah but he said  	literal	0
Oh yeah, he was  legless all night were n't he?	metaphorical	1
I got him every time, until the end and I said I am not serving him this time!	metaphorical	1
Hughey, you serve him!	literal	0
Well that's right.	metaphorical	1
Cos he was absolutely incapable of talking	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
let alone  giving any money.	literal	0
And I said it's alright we're still in	metaphorical	1
Have you ever seen him	literal	0
judge from their looks you know what they're drinking and you just like go  vaguely waving his empty glass	metaphorical	1
Well you should take his glass and 	literal	0
you fill it and take the money out their hand do n't you?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
D' ya think so?	literal	0
Yep.	literal	0
 Yeah the, ye oh yeah, honestly yeah.	literal	0
I wo I would have done tonight those but	literal	0
Oh yeah  	literal	0
talking to Alan.	metaphorical	1
Interrupted by customers.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
 No I was er  talking to, is it Alan?	metaphorical	1
Security guard.	literal	0
Are n't you the lucky one!	literal	0
Well he's better than Stuart!	literal	0
Just!	literal	0
I'm saying nothing!	literal	0
Well, yeah, but I mean the stories they tell about fishing so they're different stories	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah.	literal	0
and we caught a	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
whereas er	literal	0
He does n't lie to his wife any more.	metaphorical	1
I have been, I have been in my time!	metaphorical	1
Coarse fishing though, he was sea fishing, sea fishing.	metaphorical	1
  When are you gon na give up smoking and  save some	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
money?	literal	0
 You could pay your mortgage on what you smoked!	metaphorical	1
I do n't give a fuck! 	metaphorical	1
It's a foolish fucking!	literal	0
I ca n't  with my habits any more.	metaphorical	1
Gambling and drinking. 	literal	0
Did you  win any money today?	literal	0
Only a bit.	metaphorical	1
Have you got my keys?	literal	0
Just a wee bit.	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
I put them	literal	0
Ah.	literal	0
on the table.	literal	0
Sorry!	literal	0
I've got my keys.	literal	0
Can we not finish our drinks Barry?	literal	0
You did it like I did it did n't you?	literal	0
Course you can finish your drinks!	literal	0
Get your coat and we'll rattle it, ah, your keys are there.	literal	0
Maybe I've got a collection of these half pints at home!	metaphorical	1
I know that.	metaphorical	1
Well, bring them back!	literal	0
That's where all these long thin ones have gone.	metaphorical	1
No, no, I use  it's usually fucked.	literal	0
Why do n't you just  take a case of it, one of those  cases home, one of the empty  empty cases?	metaphorical	1
And bring back the glasses.	literal	0
And bring all the glasses back.	literal	0
  I'll tell you what they're.	literal	0
What are?	literal	0
They do take the bottoms off them.	literal	0
They do n't give a fuck 	metaphorical	1
Oh I know!	literal	0
They do take the bottoms of them Barry.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Well I told you	literal	0
Well you see, you actually see tho them little punks collecting them up at the end of the night do n't you?	metaphorical	1
Putting them under their coats like.	literal	0
How, how many  what  did you carry out yourself?	literal	0
Tonight?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Five bottoms.	literal	0
Well that's	metaphorical	1
Well that	metaphorical	1
half a case.	literal	0
And I sold four of those as well like.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
They carry out.	literal	0
And I sold  three  three double gin  three, you know.	literal	0
Yeah but yo you always sell a few to take out do n't	literal	0
Well that's why they brought it.	metaphorical	1
Most probably take out and sell them what's	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
left at the end of the night.	metaphorical	1
I mean, not all our customers abs  are absolutely stupid.	literal	0
Buy a bottle at five to two and leave it at  two o'clock.	metaphorical	1
It's the nice ones that leave their drink there.	literal	0
Mm!	literal	0
I'm amazed they have n't	literal	0
Well anyway I was talking to er Rosette tonight cos I went to the office for some change and I, then I had this like.	metaphorical	1
She said, I hear the Empire, or, or hear The Garden's doing well on a Friday night.	metaphorical	1
Must have heard about that from Alan.	metaphorical	1
He goes  it's too fucking dead!	metaphorical	1
Well it's  it, last day of week 	literal	0
Where?	literal	0
Popping up to Christies and just after you go up the top.	literal	0
No, no, no, where?	literal	0
Where are you talking about?	metaphorical	1
The Empire?	literal	0
  But apparently they're doing quite well on a Wednesday  with the students.	metaphorical	1
Students, yeah I know.	literal	0
And erm  Mark was in last week he said	literal	0
They're getting six hundred like.	literal	0
well, Mark said it was, Mark er guessed about four hundred.	metaphorical	1
He's, he, he went in last week, he went in this week  and er	metaphorical	1
Well Paul, Paul said to me six hundred, about seven hundred	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
normally he said, he said well there would be about six hundred.	metaphorical	1
Ni Nigel mentioned, he told me it was erm  er like four, five hundred in  tt  to	literal	0
Not bad though is it?	literal	0
Well it's very good in n it?	literal	0
I mean, on a Wednesday.	metaphorical	1
And it's only a quid to get in and it's a pound, pound a pint.	literal	0
Two quid and, and a drink, yeah.	literal	0
But on the other hand they're making a little bit at a pound a pint.	metaphorical	1
Well they're making five or six hundred, they're bound	metaphorical	1
to be getting on with it.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
That's getting in the	metaphorical	1
I do n't think they've got a lot of staff on.	metaphorical	1
 I would n't have thought they'd bother with a	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
student night, having a lot of staff on, it's pointless having  ah, I mean, the bouncers  in that situation.	metaphorical	1
Well you'd only need one.	literal	0
 But we do n't need a bouncer on	metaphorical	1
Except, mind you, the, the rough, the erm rugby club gave the band a bit of er, a rough  seeing to.	metaphorical	1
What band?	metaphorical	1
He had some band that were  awful apparently and the	metaphorical	1
whole of the rugby team were lying in front of stage with their	metaphorical	1
They, they've never left, they were playing the rugby club?	literal	0
fingers up. 	literal	0
No, no, no, no, no.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
University	literal	0
University rugby club.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
The Uni's?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
The band went  ran off in tears apparently.	metaphorical	1
Could n't cope.	literal	0
Seeing the University Rugby Club I would, I would have eh!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Must be some narky bastards in the rugby club!	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
I ca n't get it out it's stuck on his collar I hope she comes back for it next week.	metaphorical	1
But six hundred on a Wednesday night that's pretty good.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Does the Sugar House get that many people in?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
The Sugar House only opens er  Thursday, Friday, Saturday.	literal	0
Or, or, o we always have done.	literal	0
I mean, we  we opened originally, first year, every night of the bloody week and it was pointless, absolutely pointless.	metaphorical	1
Is that bigger than the Empire?	literal	0
I've never been in it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Er  yeah.	literal	0
Yes it is.	literal	0
Is it?	literal	0
It's legal, it's legal	literal	0
Well it's on, it's on a Thursday, yeah.	metaphorical	1
it's  it's legally bigger than the Empire but the Empire can get more people in cos he's got upstairs and	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
that	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
see.	metaphorical	1
But, of course, erm for licensing they do n't take that  particularly into consideration up there.	metaphorical	1
Well they half upstairs  straight away.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So er	literal	0
I mean, I think, I, I think the Empire legally is  well I thought it was nine hundred	literal	0
Seven fifty I think.	literal	0
I ca n't think er  I do n't know.	literal	0
I think it's nine hundred.	literal	0
I mean you could cer you could	literal	0
Well I thought it was seven fifty.	literal	0
certainly get seventeen, eighteen hundred in there.	metaphorical	1
Well yeah.	literal	0
Even that Bob Monkhouse opened up  quite	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
quite nice.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Well, they'll have the  Garden wo n't they?	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Mind you	literal	0
Probably, fucking tell by, cos there was  I thought	literal	0
They we	literal	0
there was too many.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
But I mean they were banging  they were banging fifteen hundred in for that disco for the first	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
few months were n't they?	literal	0
No, twelve, twelve or thirteen.	literal	0
They never had fifteen.	metaphorical	1
Did n't they?	literal	0
 I mean the Sugar House, his capacity's	literal	0
just been  upped to eleven hundred I think.	metaphorical	1
Erm  I mean, it was always nine hundred, but it's been upped to eleven hundred last year I think.	metaphorical	1
Well we used to put, I mean, I put twelve, thirteen hundred in the Sugar House.	metaphorical	1
But tha but you  it's full at that, you know.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Whereas the, the, the, you, you could  you could, you could fit sixteen, seventeen hundred.	metaphorical	1
No, I reckon, th th there was, th th they reckon between a, a thousand and e eleven hundred for a   night, you know.	metaphorical	1
But you could n't fucking move at that.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, but it was a, it was also a ver it was a bit of a celebrity, I mean it was  people, people were crushed around, bloody hell I mean	metaphorical	1
Yeah, that's right.	metaphorical	1
, yeah.	literal	0
all the downstairs, I mean all the plebs were upstairs  all the downstairs was erm	literal	0
Yeah but, ma maybe, maybe a hundred people.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I'm sure.	literal	0
I mean, I do n't know I, you see I left  I had to come here so I left before Bob Monkhouse and everything, I just, I, all I did was go for  couple of free drinks and plate of free food, which, I do n't think I got.	metaphorical	1
And left.	literal	0
You get a few fucking  with the chef.	literal	0
You know  deep sea diving at  	literal	0
Yes you would.	literal	0
You, you betrayed us then, you'd left had n't you?	literal	0
You'd left me!	literal	0
I had to leave.	literal	0
You'd fled us!	literal	0
And gone to work for the opposition.	literal	0
Were you op well I did n't reckon you were opposition.	metaphorical	1
But I did go out or something.	literal	0
Just cos you thought you were go	literal	0
It's funny though 	literal	0
just cos you, you were coming out with about two hundred and fifty quid a week for working seven nights a week!	metaphorical	1
No, I, originally, they they were open seven nights a week.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Was it four times a week?	literal	0
And you were secured  were n't you secured there?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Seven nights a week, two hundred and fifty in my pocket guaranteed.	literal	0
Going to bed with Jean  fucking, fucking shite!	literal	0
Kelly's!	literal	0
Christ!	literal	0
Some of the schemes they come up with.	literal	0
 Get your blood going.	metaphorical	1
I mean, I'll, I'll, I'll be interesting to see how they  they start next week with a  a load of er  bands on Thursday nights.	metaphorical	1
Mm. 	literal	0
I mean, they're all chartsey stuff but	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
you know, I, I da  that kind of stuff does n't draw punters  generally, chart stuff cos  the people who go	metaphorical	1
I du n no, I think the young	literal	0
the people who are interested	literal	0
I think the young people go to it like.	metaphorical	1
Well me yeah, maybe.	literal	0
Maybe some of that will.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
But generally pop, poppy type	literal	0
A lot, a lot of 	literal	0
Top of the Pops stuff does n't, in the sense that  people who like to go and see live music do n't  people who like that kind of music prefer the dis  prefer it in a	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
disco context.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Not, not, seeing sort of a live concert.	metaphorical	1
 Anyway	literal	0
In fact, in fact most of the stuff they do n't like anyway.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
True.	literal	0
Well they're not lo all those appearances are P A, it's all gon na be mimed and  backing tapes.	metaphorical	1
Erm  that blooming Labour Party cancelling that conference on March twenty second  and which has	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah.	literal	0
messed me up!	metaphorical	1
Cos I was  Mary wanted to go and see Si Simply Red at G MEX, and  last weekend we co or weekend before last when they were on, their big, er we could n't because  I had the kids  Friday  night and the two of them Saturday night and it, that was the two nights.	metaphorical	1
Were you gon na go with her?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So, so  so I said well we'll go to the N E C or Sheffi she said oh I'm not traipsing all that way, you know, just for the concert.	metaphorical	1
So  and she was, she was moaning away like sort of  oh we alright!	metaphorical	1
I'll take you over to Paris and we'll watch them in Paris on the twenty  so she said, oh when?	metaphorical	1
So I said, twentieth of March.	literal	0
She said oh!	literal	0
Tt.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
The Labour Party Conference is on so I ca n't go.	metaphorical	1
So I said	literal	0
oh dear me!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
  And then she came in, oh, Labour Party Conference is cancelled!	metaphorical	1
Oh bugger!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
You see Jean on the telly with Neil Kinnock?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No, I've been told about it.	metaphorical	1
When?	literal	0
Ee, er, Friday.	literal	0
It's on all the national news.	metaphorical	1
It was n't, it was n't on the regional news it was peculiar!	metaphorical	1
Well we did	literal	0
It was on the six o'clock nat well it was on all day, one o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock	metaphorical	1
Yeah the	literal	0
four o'clock, six o'clock	literal	0
normal news.	literal	0
nine o'clock  yeah.	literal	0
It was n't on the regional news.	metaphorical	1
Where were they?	literal	0
Salford Keys.	literal	0
He was up seeing all the north west candidates  parliamentary candidates.	metaphorical	1
Jean was in that horrible  sa mustard and black striped	metaphorical	1
contraption!	metaphorical	1
Stuck out like a sore	metaphorical	1
So that everybody noticed!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Her dressing up outfit.	metaphorical	1
Hear Labour are one point five  I heard it yesterday	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
All the sh	literal	0
I thought she was going to be meeting him next weekend then?	literal	0
All the dirty tricks start now though.	metaphorical	1
At the regional conference at Blackpool.	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
I do n't, I do n't, I do n't whether he's going to that.	metaphorical	1
Forgotten what it's called.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, it's si I know it's north	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
west, er no, la regional councils re Labour  council, the  urban councils or something like that.	metaphorical	1
Something like that, yeah.	metaphorical	1
No, na well I do n't know, he might be.	literal	0
I do n't know whether he's going to that, he might be but  this was, this, he was up sort of seeing, meeting all the Labour Party candidates for the north west.	metaphorical	1
Well if I had a million invested, have it all invested.	literal	0
Yep!	literal	0
Yep!	literal	0
I agree.	literal	0
Seriously, I'd fucking have it out of there, everything I own.	metaphorical	1
But he ta all the dirty tricks are starting now.	metaphorical	1
Kinnock's a funny  he really is.	literal	0
He's er  the Sunday Times tomorrow	literal	0
Er, I remember you said about	metaphorical	1
full  Sunday Times tomorrow, Major expose on the lader le the lea the Labour leaderships  ties with  a Moscow  Moscow company.	metaphorical	1
Did you see it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh you mean, they're still getting Moscow's 	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
It's like, what's it they've got?	metaphorical	1
I think it's about time I got my share of the 	metaphorical	1
Well who's doing it, tomorrow, what they call it?	metaphorical	1
Report he's doing tomorrow?	literal	0
Oh	literal	0
Er  Sunday Times.	literal	0
Personal view of the files on.	metaphorical	1
Typically. 	literal	0
Dennis Healey, fuck!	literal	0
He's gon na out with some stick!	metaphorical	1
Kinnock was saying to erm  the candidates, you know, we re I realize that a lot of you are getting it rough at the moment, cos there's about five Labour	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
candidates all been arrested in the north	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
west  mysteriously.	literal	0
But er  Jean not a.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Derek, there's somebody Derek	literal	0
Derby	literal	0
Derby, that's right.	metaphorical	1
Blackpool's under investigation.	metaphorical	1
Anyway, so erm  he said, but you know  he was saying to them that er, it's not just at the bottom end, he said, in our village in Wales we've got  the Sun have now positioned two reporters who have lived in the village  the these  the they sit in a car outside his house day and night	metaphorical	1
photographing who comes in.	literal	0
They've been to his little boy's primary school, interviewed the teachers and headmistress and  all the school friends and everything just trying to get a dirty story.	metaphorical	1
Well that, but your main areas will be  gon na be before.	literal	0
So	literal	0
What?	literal	0
we're just saying main area's 	literal	0
You ought to save them wooden type of things for it.	metaphorical	1
You know the	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Should have bought them for.	literal	0
Ve er, yeah, I mean it's, it's	literal	0
Are they expensive though?	literal	0
expensive, it is very expensive.	literal	0
Well you could have your dance floor, actual dance floor  whatever, could n't you?	literal	0
And then something	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Well it's	literal	0
You can make it different like and make it sort of  still a dance area.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Something like they have at Chapel.	literal	0
Yeah, what have they got down in there?	metaphorical	1
Just the wooden floor.	literal	0
It's just, just a little, a little sort of parquet	literal	0
Small	literal	0
flooring type of thing.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
That type of floor, yeah.	metaphorical	1
And carpet all round it and just a	literal	0
Oh it's carpet is it round	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
it?	literal	0
But it's only a tiny  area	literal	0
Yeah but	literal	0
is n't it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
But as I say, in the Sugar House so we I mean, we've ju we, all we did was, was we  the mass the big central area we just  literally  sort of lino type floor  and carpeted  round the edges	literal	0
Round the edge.	literal	0
and into the bar area.	literal	0
And it's a ma I mean you get four hundred people on the dance floor in the Sugar House.	metaphorical	1
Erm	literal	0
Where is this Sugar House?	metaphorical	1
It's in erm	literal	0
In Lancaster?	literal	0
behind Waring and Gillow.	literal	0
How do you get to that?	metaphorical	1
Say the rest of us did n't know where it was.	literal	0
Up, up the alleyway by  the Yorkshire, you got Yorkshire House there	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Waring and Gillow, and it's up that alleyway there.	metaphorical	1
Oh is it in there?	literal	0
It's, it was the architects' department  erm, till they  go   like you know, till they Palatine Hall  erm, it used to be the architects' department.	literal	0
We bought it off the city, well Michelin bought it off the city council and they gazumped us and  erm  but we, we have tables  and chairs onto the dance floor  on other nights and just pull them back when it's clear	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Saturday night there's gon na	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
be a thousand people in.	literal	0
That's how we used to do it.	metaphorical	1
Ah yeah.	literal	0
So er  can they get, yeah, they get eleven, twelve	metaphorical	1
How many's?	literal	0
Er  I think they le it's nine hundred	literal	0
The	literal	0
is n't it?	literal	0
Is the like, legal  limit.	metaphorical	1
They've, they put like twelve, thirteen	literal	0
 on a night.	metaphorical	1
they've put twelve, thirteen hundred in.	metaphorical	1
But, when, when they can  but  you've ju  i  in the Empire if you, if you've  I do n't know actually, i before they  before they messed about with all the raised seating and everything, if it had been just left open like the Old Floral Hall, like it was  you'd have got  seventeen	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
eighteen hundred in.	literal	0
With a balcony.	literal	0
Erm  I mean as an ol as the Old Floral Hall they must have had	literal	0
Mm mm.	literal	0
they must have been putting two thousand in  you know	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
in those days.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Well I mean, they'll all be packed up in the bars upstairs would n't they, and  everything	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
you know, leaning over the balcony and all that sort of  er	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 Mm.	literal	0
But I'd er, I'd  you know the way they've, the way they've got it now I do n't, I do n't know.	metaphorical	1
Well	literal	0
But, you know i I mean actually the other, the other aspect of it Anne if you, if you pull this out  you could be talking about hosting small conferences and that	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
could n't you?	literal	0
Definitely.	literal	0
Cos if you're looking at  a two hundred capacity conference for er	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Easy-peasy!	literal	0
No messing!	metaphorical	1
Ma that, that just makes the total  picture just different altogether.	metaphorical	1
So right  so that's that little job	metaphorical	1
You	literal	0
sorted out.	metaphorical	1
probably need to	literal	0
I'm	literal	0
get	metaphorical	1
I'm gon na play with that and see what	metaphorical	1
probably need to get Ken's per	metaphorical	1
we can do with it then.	metaphorical	1
probably need to get Ken's permission!	metaphorical	1
Who?	literal	0
Mr.	literal	0
Ken's permission?	literal	0
What for?	literal	0
Structural alterations.	literal	0
What for?	literal	0
For that?	metaphorical	1
Mind you, act actually	literal	0
I've got ta be catched I wo n't actually do it I'll just come in run a mo just give it complete customers and  and help	literal	0
they'll say well you, it's awful, you're awfully sorry but it's.	literal	0
On what?	literal	0
Actually th from the original  structure, I mean, it's, it's, it was half that size anyway.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Well as I say, you can see where it was, it's that sort of diamond	metaphorical	1
Well why do you es	literal	0
I think.	literal	0
did you have get his, well it int structural is it?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I would n't	literal	0
No, it int because  structural's walls.	literal	0
Oh that's  get his permission for nothing!	metaphorical	1
Well he wo n't know  I do n't  I do n't think he dare show	literal	0
At the moment.	metaphorical	1
his face at moment, he had n't been anywhere round to, since  all this happened before Christmas.	metaphorical	1
Obnoxious little man int he?	metaphorical	1
He's like a ferret!	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
I get on very well with him though.	literal	0
So what is  so there's nothing to the other side, just apart from this big room?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
But, and a bar.	literal	0
What, and that in there?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So that's that one?	metaphorical	1
There's a massive room with twelve snooker, twelve snooker tables	metaphorical	1
Well, yeah, well, well	literal	0
in.	literal	0
er just  maybe the size of this.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
It is the size	literal	0
Well, no	literal	0
of this.	literal	0
It is exactly	literal	0
Well I mean	literal	0
eh?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It is the size of this, yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
So we'll want	literal	0
And what they've, what they've got, they've got the bar in a far bottom corner	metaphorical	1
You used to go in to play snooker did n't you?	literal	0
I did.	literal	0
Disco nights.	literal	0
When we have a  when we were talking to them and we had the door through  and my snooker got really good.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
We did, we had a snooker table at home and my snooker will never get good.	literal	0
I used to end up hitting them like a golf ball!	literal	0
Used to go bloody berserk!	literal	0
Good with iron and everything you know.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Them were the days.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I hated it!	literal	0
What?	literal	0
When you were at?	literal	0
Do you fancy a quick game then? 	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Might do in a minute.	metaphorical	1
Well I shall go because if that  fella's been from, if that fella said I did n't have a job I'll be jumping up and down like a what d' ya call it!	metaphorical	1
Oh alright.	literal	0
Okay.	literal	0
I'm, I'm going to erm  we'll make that into something American.	metaphorical	1
But I do n't know what.	literal	0
Have to think of that.	metaphorical	1
We do we will, I'm just saying we do wan na get into cocktail and	metaphorical	1
 Ranch House. 	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Eh?	literal	0
Said a Ranch House from.	literal	0
Sod off!	metaphorical	1
  No we do n't wan na be looking at	metaphorical	1
You see some fucking morons we get in!	literal	0
No, we wan na be	literal	0
That's who we need to advise us do n't we?	metaphorical	1
We need Geoffrey  along to advise us.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Geoffrey, how would you	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
how do you Americanize this?	literal	0
Bastards stealing our customers last night!	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Criticizing a scooterist	literal	0
Where's my customers?	literal	0
Criticizing a scooterist do n't want them in town and then put functions on and cheap beer for them  when they come.	metaphorical	1
Well they do that do n't they?	metaphorical	1
I mean, they're all  you know.	literal	0
Supposed to be four hundred in the Ranch House last night.	literal	0
On the ground like.	literal	0
We need lo we needs lots of  piles of steaming horse manure and things do n't we around and	literal	0
stuff like that?	metaphorical	1
Got ta get it right.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
That's for Frontier Land.	metaphorical	1
We are	literal	0
we are erm	literal	0
Thought it was hardly.	literal	0
We're Boston.	literal	0
Yeah definite.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
We're near Boston.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cheers.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Does it	literal	0
Punters would n't go, go for it.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No I do n't, no, no, no, no, no, but I know it wants to be  erm	metaphorical	1
Eh!	literal	0
Have you seen the new rules on er  bar staff?	metaphorical	1
 No.	literal	0
They're not allowed to smoke.	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
No, you're not.	literal	0
No, no, no.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Full stop?	metaphorical	1
Anywhere.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Not, you ca n't even wander outside	literal	0
So I go doo doo doo doo doo.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
And, you've got ta wear gloves  to use the till.	literal	0
You what?	literal	0
You ca n't ha you ca n't handle money  and	literal	0
And serve 	literal	0
pull pints.	literal	0
Who says that?	metaphorical	1
This is Health and Environment, it's a new  	metaphorical	1
When's it in operation.	metaphorical	1
Er er, I do n't know actually.	literal	0
I've got it in Disco Club Mirror, it's the front page out the	literal	0
Oh I could n't have that!	metaphorical	1
Grantham.	literal	0
They're treating ba	metaphorical	1
Got to have a look at this.	metaphorical	1
they're treating alcohol as food.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
So all the hygiene things on food  apply to alcohol.	metaphorical	1
Oh I know that.	metaphorical	1
So you ca n't handle, you ca n't handle	literal	0
You're gon na have to have somebody else to take the money wo n't you?	metaphorical	1
Fucking cashier.	literal	0
You'll have to have a cashier.	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
You ca n't do it though.	literal	0
You ca n't have, yo it'd mean one to serve and one take the money.	metaphorical	1
It's fucking ridiculous!	literal	0
Say if you're, if you're really busy at the bar just taking your gloves off and fucking  putting them on.	literal	0
Oh aye you're gon na do it are n't you!	literal	0
Well what we'll do is we'll do, we'll just have a pump at the side of the till.	metaphorical	1
Well you  	literal	0
There's punters on the door!	metaphorical	1
Yeah, you know like	literal	0
Fucking!	literal	0
you know like it is.	literal	0
Oh no it is n't!	literal	0
You wan na go!	literal	0
Alright then.	literal	0
Or nuclear license opens 	literal	0
No, just ask them if it's effective with your license just, you know, sort of as you come	metaphorical	1
Mind you, one	literal	0
from the sale.	literal	0
Vo Volks  Volks took them	literal	0
We're sterilizing the bar with those.	metaphorical	1
Volks took them into, not Volks, er what they called?	literal	0
Somebody took me to see one of their pubs in Liverpool it was wonderful!	literal	0
Where the shutters are	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
all, just hardboard  like that, with just a little  O like that and you, you, you shout a pint of beer and you pushed your money through and then a beer  ca came out the other side!	metaphorical	1
Bet it was  erm	metaphorical	1
It was rough!	metaphorical	1
Yeah!	literal	0
Waste of time though in n it?	metaphorical	1
It was a bit of a rough area.	metaphorical	1
What type of beer are you getting!	literal	0
No, and a pint of sherry!	literal	0
Yeah, and plastic glasses as well.	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
  Oh my	literal	0
Great!	metaphorical	1
 I mean, the only way you could do that would be  if you had a till at one end and people bought whatever they wanted and were given a voucher and you walked down the other end and exchanged	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
it for drink.	literal	0
That's the only way you could actually  make that work at all.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, but just think of how much messing about there is.	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
It'd be unbelievable!	literal	0
I mean it'd be two thi forty we'd be round the bloody bend!	metaphorical	1
Yeah, but it's somebody sitting in an office in n it  deciding this!	metaphorical	1
Yeah, but who, who do you  you know why	literal	0
Sitting in a suit in a nice office saying, wo!	literal	0
This is a good idea.	metaphorical	1
You know  they do n't serve behind the bar on a Saturday night.	metaphorical	1
They want somebody here from the  for half an hour and them not being served first	literal	0
Here!	literal	0
You know what happens, d' ya know what happens then they'll get people	literal	0
like.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
People will get so antiseptic that they'll not be able to stand any  sort of germs of any sort.	literal	0
That's	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
true that!	metaphorical	1
I mean, you think about all this  I mean  a load of crap when they have larders and all that!	metaphorical	1
Alright, you might have got the odd  but it's all this warming, doing it and then  half leaving it and then	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
warming it up again that does the damage.	metaphorical	1
Certainly does.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
So  well I shall wander back with my little book now.	metaphorical	1
I'm er  I'm er, I'm just er	literal	0
What?	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
I shall come tomorrow tonight when it's dark.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
I'm o ooh!	literal	0
Actually tomorrow night's not a good id  well	literal	0
No, nonsense 	literal	0
Oh is it rave night tomorrow	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
night?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
Rob's coming to look at lights.	literal	0
Yeah, I mean it's all light and smoke and all the tables and chairs are out and	literal	0
Ca n't see a thing.	literal	0
And you wo n't be able to see anything.	literal	0
I know I come on a Friday I were absolutely gobsmacked!	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You can only see twelve feet er, you'd think the place was empty  in the bar.	literal	0
Erm  I mean Saturday night would be be better Anne.	literal	0
Oh Saturday night then.	literal	0
Yeah, well I'll have a wander in Saturday night then.	metaphorical	1
But is that  is that	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
This is definite.	metaphorical	1
Bye!	literal	0
Bye.	literal	0
You know that I'm not gon na get out of course.	literal	0
Got ta climb up that other end.	metaphorical	1
There's another  there's a orifice down there.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
Why are the doors always  wrote wrong way!	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
That's er, that's our	literal	0
That's ours just there, yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
That's ours as well there.	literal	0
Oh sorry.	literal	0
That's ours as well down there.	metaphorical	1
You get enough for twenty five K hav have n't they?	literal	0
And that's with the  chip system obviously.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 It's er  cleaner's room, two dressing rooms and toilets down there.	metaphorical	1
Well this is the area that you'll have to do something about is the  if you're gon na knock it into the Winter Gardens this is the area that knocks into the Winter Gardens.	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
Does that lead	metaphorical	1
Well, along that corridor is	literal	0
Well I, we wo n't be doing anything nearly spectacular area than this.	literal	0
 It wo n't open.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Where are all the light switches?	literal	0
I mean, what, what we initially, this was a cloakroom  this, this area	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
was n't here, i this	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
was the door and there was a little cloakroom	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
but er, our customers  do n't take their jackets off anyway	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
Do n't they?	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
So you do n't need a cloakroom then?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
But more in, but  what it was we when I was in here, sort of  five days a week, nine to five job	metaphorical	1
Mhm mm.	literal	0
it was getting depres it was getting oppressive in that little office down there.	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
I would have thought, yeah.	literal	0
Awful!	literal	0
You'd get a	literal	0
So we were gon na move an office up to here with some natural light in it.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cos there's nothing worse than there being a room with no natural light in, really.	literal	0
I did n't realize it at the time but I think it wants	metaphorical	1
Eh!	literal	0
No they think it's really bad.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So	literal	0
It's really bad  not enough light.	literal	0
It's oppressive.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Course, the other thing you've got ta invest in is tables and  well you do n't need chairs, but tables, I mean  as you can see we've got two hundred of those poly-cotton chairs  in there which is  erm  can be used.	metaphorical	1
I'll get some tables up with erm	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Tables are quite expensive though.	literal	0
So many places Barry are going down	metaphorical	1
Well, true	literal	0
I tell you.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Just keep, just, in fact just keep  well le let's get it sorted out and then we'll just get er  er  cos plenty of storage space and stuff.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Used to have tables and extensions you see	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Bob makes tables.	literal	0
Bloody hell!	metaphorical	1
I've got extensions, sure.	literal	0
I tell you what make i trestle tables are so expensive are n't they?	literal	0
I know!	literal	0
Incredible price!	literal	0
You still.	literal	0
You ca n't, you ca n't get either, you know, proper	literal	0
No.	literal	0
you know, big wooden	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
trestle tables you just ca n't get anywhere.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
There's another  wasted area.	literal	0
There's incredible wasted areas in this place!	literal	0
It's very badly planned you know	literal	0
Terrible in n it?	literal	0
inside here.	literal	0
It's all corridor and er	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
It's all foyers and things.	metaphorical	1
Wants to be like  Chamber of Horrors!	metaphorical	1
As you come down, you know.	literal	0
  Right!	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
I'm off!	literal	0
Speak to you later.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
Cheers.	literal	0
Bye!	literal	0
Bye bye.	literal	0
The two companies concerned are trying to record the spoken word.	metaphorical	1
We do n't want you on tape. 	literal	0
So the thing, the thing to do is to sort of dot around in the conversation things like pre antidisestablishmentarianism.	metaphorical	1
And hopefully  	literal	0
This will get modern usage of words.	metaphorical	1
Of, one of the words that she was talking about, people have started using wicked for  a normal phrase.	metaphorical	1
I mean, it does n't mean what it says in the dictionary any more.	metaphorical	1
That's a really wicked thing to say, he went, no it's not it's bad, it's not wicked.	metaphorical	1
He thinks of wicked as being good, he does n't, cause Mandy says wicked.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 Well that's the idea anyway.	metaphorical	1
He goes round saying wicked, it's his favourite word. 	literal	0
Are you going to go to sleep, eh?	metaphorical	1
Please   That does n't mean much, does it?	metaphorical	1
She's just looking over there to see which one she wants to throw up on. 	literal	0
Who do you want to go and gurgle at?	metaphorical	1
Eh?	literal	0
Oh not Uncle Brian, no no no. 	literal	0
No?	literal	0
 Have you had enough grub for a little while?	metaphorical	1
There you are, go and see somebody.	literal	0
 she's got a ginormous one.	literal	0
She had it.	literal	0
Well do n't  to me I've only just you	literal	0
Come on, give Auntie Pauline a nice smile.	metaphorical	1
Go on, you do lovely smiles. 	metaphorical	1
If she smiles it will be at your hairline.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
She wo n't be able to see that far, will she?	literal	0
She might be able to see a blurred shape.	literal	0
 she's just looked this way now.	literal	0
She kept looking over there.	literal	0
Do n't know what she was looking at.	literal	0
What were you looking at?	literal	0
Well she definitely looks at her mobile.	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
I know it drives you mad, the music but er 	metaphorical	1
I would n't mind if those blasted  slightly longer life in terms of the music they played.	metaphorical	1
But unfortunately, you know, it's  or whatever.	literal	0
But it's  over again.	literal	0
Well, yes.	literal	0
Well I mean that's what's nice for them, is n't it?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You see they've got a short concentration.	metaphorical	1
Do you think  music in the background  sort of, do all the lyrics as well. 	metaphorical	1
Oh of course  Oh well done.	literal	0
 the last half hour.	literal	0
 a little bit was n't it?	metaphorical	1
She's had a lot of that today.	metaphorical	1
Have you? 	literal	0
Well do n't put it on too loud, will you?	metaphorical	1
 why babies have a suck there.	metaphorical	1
 You say they're having milk, he went, what do you mean?	metaphorical	1
Milk?	literal	0
What do you mean milk comes out there?	metaphorical	1
 So I said well it's only when you've just had a baby like, you know, like cows.	metaphorical	1
Love him.	literal	0
O K.	literal	0
You will speak to me.	metaphorical	1
Eh?	literal	0
You will speak to, I'm very relaxed.	metaphorical	1
 I would n't like to go for a week in silence. 	metaphorical	1
You know, I ca n't stay for a week in silence.	metaphorical	1
I did n't think you could. 	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Where'd you come from?	literal	0
Oh dear, I thought you were a, there, oh there.	literal	0
 What's  like?	literal	0
He does n't know his middle name, does he?  her name.	metaphorical	1
It's nearly ready.	literal	0
.  Five minutes, oh we're late are n't we?	literal	0
Never mind.	literal	0
I spoke to  today. 	metaphorical	1
Oh, right.	literal	0
How is he?	literal	0
Well, that's the name of the company is n't it?	metaphorical	1
He's busy.	literal	0
Oh, that's what he wants to be is n't it?	metaphorical	1
Bad news.	literal	0
It's bad news being busy?	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
He, who?	literal	0
His wife's laid up in bed	literal	0
Why, what's wrong?	literal	0
with back pain.	literal	0
She's not allowed to move	literal	0
Oh dear.	literal	0
at all.	literal	0
Well she works with him, does n't she?	metaphorical	1
 accounts department.	literal	0
He's got to go and deal with the children, take them to and from work, then run a business.	metaphorical	1
Then he's got to go home at lunchtime and give her some food.	metaphorical	1
Aha.	literal	0
Now that kind of busy is  not the right sort of busy is it?	literal	0
Not pleasant.	literal	0
Are you hungry Charlotte?	literal	0
Are you?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
No?	literal	0
You do n't want anything to eat?	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
I'll eat your dinner.	literal	0
We'll eat your dinner for you.	literal	0
I'll go and eat your dinner.	literal	0
She's going to go and eat your dinner. 	literal	0
You have.	literal	0
What have you been doing?	literal	0
Have you been buying naughty things again Joelle?	metaphorical	1
 Naughty girl.	literal	0
 eaten my dinner?	literal	0
I have n't eaten your dinner, it's not ready yet.	literal	0
.  Nearly ready.	literal	0
  Oh, you're doing it in English are you?	metaphorical	1
 I hate this in English.	metaphorical	1
This, this video.	literal	0
 Oh  it's the voices I ca n't stand. 	metaphorical	1
Bonk.	literal	0
Did it go bonk?	metaphorical	1
  Listen, go away  She does n't say go away very much now.	literal	0
Go away.	literal	0
Does she?	literal	0
 Well she's just heard it, that's why, but she does n't  she does n't say it very much does she?	metaphorical	1
No?	literal	0
 I've only heard it once or twice in the last few 	metaphorical	1
When I change her nappy?	literal	0
Well, that's normal.	metaphorical	1
 She does n't want you to change her nappy does she?	literal	0
  Water please.	literal	0
 Right, let's go and see if these chicken things are ready.	metaphorical	1
 Right, right, would you like to sort of start getting yourselves into the other room.	literal	0
 Now the baby's waking up, dinner's ready.	literal	0
Is baby waking up?	literal	0
She keeps kicking her legs and going, ah, ah.	literal	0
Is the  ready?	literal	0
No, it's not.	literal	0
I said try and start thinking about getting in there because 	metaphorical	1
How soon?	literal	0
About two minutes.	metaphorical	1
Shall we start?	literal	0
After dinner, yeah.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 Brian and Pauline probably wo n't arrive till it's virtually over.	metaphorical	1
Probably not.	literal	0
 Do you think Charlotte will eat a turkey steak with garlic and herbs?	literal	0
 What?	literal	0
I said do you think Charlotte will eat a turkey steak with garlic and herbs?	literal	0
We'll see, wo n't we.	literal	0
You hungry?	literal	0
 Miss?	literal	0
What's happening,  water please, water, water.	literal	0
Ah, that's that done.	metaphorical	1
Oh, it smells good.	literal	0
They do do n't they?	literal	0
I thought we'd try them for a change.	literal	0
They look really nice.	literal	0
Like chicken Kiev without a load of sloppy butter.	metaphorical	1
Bit smaller than normal ones.	literal	0
  There's a lot of banging and crashing on this tape.	metaphorical	1
 What else do I need?	literal	0
A plate for Charlotte.	literal	0
 Brian said, we'll make it tomorrow night, eight to eight thirty.	metaphorical	1
So, cos he had an early, erm, what do you call it, early estimate.	metaphorical	1
Oh Charlotte, look what.	literal	0
Do n't be naughty.	literal	0
Can you sort erm, madame out?	metaphorical	1
Off you go Jess, go and be fed.	literal	0
 Is that nice?	literal	0
 Is that a nice cake?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
 Oh you're colouring Postman Pat.	literal	0
 You've got a black crayon again.	literal	0
It's Charlotte choosing.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
It's Charlotte choosing.	literal	0
Chose what?	literal	0
The cake!	literal	0
Oh, right.	literal	0
 Did you know what you were choosing?	literal	0
 Did you walk around Tesco's?	literal	0
Did you walk, or did you sit in your pushchair? 	literal	0
Tell the truth.	literal	0
 Did you walk, or did you walk in your pushchair?	literal	0
Sit in the pushchair.	literal	0
You went in a car did n't you?	literal	0
 Have you told Daddy what you did?	literal	0
 Erm?	literal	0
Go on, you tell Daddy what you did in front of  erm	metaphorical	1
We went, we went to Tesco	literal	0
Mhm	literal	0
and after Tesco, just next to the door there's some little car	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
for you to go 	literal	0
Yeah, one of these things you sit in, put twenty P in or whatever it is, and  have a ride for two minutes.	metaphorical	1
So she said, mm.	literal	0
So I said, you can go in there when we are, when we done the shopping.	literal	0
So I said, if you are a good girl you can choose a cake.	literal	0
So went to Tesco, and we walk around, the cake, erm, cake thing	literal	0
Aisle?	literal	0
and er, I said 	literal	0
Oh Charlotte, do n't talk with your mouth full. 	metaphorical	1
We went to Tesco to buy some milk.	literal	0
To buy some milk?	literal	0
Because Sainsbury did n't have any yesterday.	metaphorical	1
Did they have any today?	metaphorical	1
I do n't know, I did n't go today.	literal	0
 What did I do today?	literal	0
 I made beans, when I'd finished sorting out this one I.	metaphorical	1
Charlotte do n't play with that lovey.	literal	0
 That's a good girl.	literal	0
Then I went to the bank.	literal	0
Then I went to Tesco.	literal	0
That take me nearly all the er	metaphorical	1
All morning.	literal	0
And erm	literal	0
Then this afternoon we went to Croydon.	metaphorical	1
Exciting.	literal	0
I went to Tesco.	literal	0
You went to Tesco?	literal	0
We are very tired.	literal	0
We are.	literal	0
 Absolutely.	literal	0
Who's we?	literal	0
Me.	literal	0
We.	literal	0
All of us?	literal	0
You're not tired.	literal	0
Why not?	literal	0
You should n't be tired.	literal	0
I'm happy.	literal	0
Oh I'm so glad you're happy.	literal	0
 She's a poor old lady at the moment.	metaphorical	1
Is she?	literal	0
Poor old lady.	metaphorical	1
Charlotte please do n't talk with your mouth full, there's a good girl.	metaphorical	1
Keep your mouth closed when you've got something in it or we'll take something away.	literal	0
It's not, it's not very nice darling, to do that.	literal	0
It's not good manners.	literal	0
We want to bring up a nice girl, not a little pig.	metaphorical	1
 Alright?	literal	0
 pig.	literal	0
No, nice girl, not a little pig.	metaphorical	1
 pig.	literal	0
Yes, nice girl.	literal	0
 Are you a nice girl?	literal	0
What?	literal	0
Not the way you stuff your cake in your mouth like that.	metaphorical	1
Dear oh dear.	literal	0
I would n't bounce at the same time 	metaphorical	1
Do n't bounce when you're eating please.	literal	0
 And shut your mouth.	literal	0
 Good girl.	literal	0
 trampoline now.	literal	0
You're going on the trampoline.	literal	0
Well finish your mouthful first, please.	literal	0
Or 	literal	0
Ah that was n't her fault.	literal	0
 Have you finished?	literal	0
Have you finished eating?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
No?	literal	0
No 	literal	0
 calls for you.	literal	0
Swansea.	literal	0
Right hand side.	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
I could n't work out what you were talking about.	metaphorical	1
It only takes one at a time.	metaphorical	1
No it's not  now.	literal	0
It's bath time really.	literal	0
Be bath time in about fifteen minutes.	metaphorical	1
I thought you'd finished your cake, have n't you finished?	literal	0
Catch it, one two three  catch it, one two three.	literal	0
 I said catch it, you did n't catch it,. 	literal	0
What? 	literal	0
It's Top Of The Pops.	literal	0
Top Of The Pops, oh	literal	0
I have n't watched Top of the Pops.	literal	0
 will sit there cringing, said I ca n't believe they put this rubbish on  terrible.	metaphorical	1
Who was on it?	metaphorical	1
Do n't know who was on it actually.	metaphorical	1
Well she does n't like M C Hammer, he was on, and then there was one week with Germans on it and it was, erm, it's a German group that used to be popular and have n't done a song for ages.	metaphorical	1
It was n't the Robots was it?	literal	0
Yeah, the Robots.	literal	0
I mean, it was just  the words they were using, I mean oh  It makes you cringe, oh and then that er girl  oh she's done quite a few things recently.	metaphorical	1
 She sings much better than she talks.	literal	0
 back to my diet today.	metaphorical	1
 Thank you very much, yes I will actually.	literal	0
No, it's not my day to diet, been, been naughty today.	literal	0
  Oh dear.	literal	0
Pop him on the shoulder.	literal	0
. So did you enjoy Paul Simon?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
She was about to but she found a sticker on book 	metaphorical	1
She comes out well on tape does n't she?	metaphorical	1
Who Charlotte?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I did n't realise how clear her speech was until I heard it on the tape.	metaphorical	1
It's really quite good actually.	literal	0
Not bad. 	literal	0
Oh we'll do this one again. 	literal	0
 drop off  	literal	0
Cos it's lights and things is n't it?	literal	0
She was looking at er lights in Sainsbury's the other day.	literal	0
  It looked like that, did n't it?	metaphorical	1
Carol was swaying at her.	literal	0
You missed that.	metaphorical	1
I just swayed at her, and she   	literal	0
It's Conway Twitty is n't it?	literal	0
Is it?	literal	0
Oh no.	literal	0
 How far back does this go, I suppose early fifties?	metaphorical	1
Er nineteen fifty six.	literal	0
I remember Conway Twitty.	literal	0
Oh yes.	literal	0
You were in your cradle.	literal	0
 Elvis, did n't he? 	literal	0
I do n't think he ever recorded it, I think he just used to sing it at his, er sort of cabaret.	metaphorical	1
Well so many of these songs have been done by so many people that you would be forgiven for thinking that, that.	metaphorical	1
Because there's one there, one on one of these that er either Paul Simon or Art Garfunkel or someone, ca n't remember which one, probably Art Garfunkel as Paul Simon does all his own does n't he?	literal	0
Well he has done other people's.	literal	0
Well there's one on there, I ca n't remember	literal	0
Like for instance the, er, what do they call those two?	metaphorical	1
Oh  the two brothers.	literal	0
In the	metaphorical	1
Everley Brothers?	literal	0
The Everley Brothers, that's it.	metaphorical	1
You know, Wake up Little Suzie?	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Well Simon and Garfunkel did that 	metaphorical	1
Wicked  far out.	metaphorical	1
 it's a groovy record this.	literal	0
Shut up.  	literal	0
Ca n't remember which one it is but I'll recognise it when I hear it.	literal	0
He's doing very well, is n't he.	literal	0
He is.	literal	0
Have to employ him full time.	literal	0
He's always quite good.	literal	0
I just ca n't believe how daft he is.	literal	0
I suppose you like that film. 	metaphorical	1
Yes. 	literal	0
Forget it.	literal	0
You're not having cake.	literal	0
Does she like cake?	literal	0
Well she's looking at it. 	literal	0
So how's things down at the?	metaphorical	1
Not too bad.	literal	0
Quite good actually. 	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
Keeping him busy out on estimates and	metaphorical	1
Yeah he's out  all this week.	metaphorical	1
Well, my dad wo n't pass them onto Terry.	metaphorical	1
Me dad said he's had enough  Well, we were debating whether to give it to you or not.	metaphorical	1
But I thought, well if Terry notices he might.	literal	0
Well in fact two really big estimates 	metaphorical	1
Who, Terry?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And one wanted re-estimating, the other one wanted a few more prices cos everything like marble tops which are going to cost a fortune to get done.	metaphorical	1
We give them a provisional kind of price and not really gone into it in detail.	metaphorical	1
So she had a list of about five things she wanted sorted out and she said so far we were the cheapest.	metaphorical	1
But she's got about six different firms on the computer and was comparing notes.	metaphorical	1
So I worked out  and the other two were really fitting and electrics and it was all down to Terry to sort those out.	metaphorical	1
And they're both, about two to three thousand pounds worth of sanitary ware or more but two to three thousand pounds worth of work.	metaphorical	1
Well you ca n't afford to lose them, can you?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
So what's going to happen then?	literal	0
God knows.	literal	0
He said, I asked, asked, well I left a message on Saturday for him to sort them out did n't I?	metaphorical	1
He already knew about that.	metaphorical	1
And then I asked my father on Tuesday to remind him and he said, he'd already said he'd fetch them in on Tuesday.	metaphorical	1
And he, my father reminded him last night and he said yeah he would have them by tomorrow morning.	metaphorical	1
But he's, he just really has to get in touch with one of them  and tell them the prices.	literal	0
So I do n't know.	literal	0
 Well, I mean he'd done, he's done this first estimate, these are all just polishing touches cos people are obviously interested in, you know they're well keen on our prices.	metaphorical	1
 they ca n't pursue it till we come back to them.	metaphorical	1
They're not pursuing it until we put these things out.	metaphorical	1
 My father just turned round  I've had enough of it if Terry's not going to do the estimate he passes them on to Brian.	metaphorical	1
I said yeah then I get into trouble with them for not passing estimates to Terry and then there's an argument.	metaphorical	1
If he, if he says anything to me I'll just have to tell him.	metaphorical	1
But he's not doing the estimates he's been given and he ca n't afford to throw money away.	metaphorical	1
It's cos he's working for him at the moment  money.	metaphorical	1
He always gets like that and then he forgets after like a month or two when he has n't worked for him.	metaphorical	1
He forgets how annoying he can be and you know he swings the other way.	metaphorical	1
 I mean Brian's pulled in a lot of work.	metaphorical	1
 lot of people kind of saying come back again on Thursday  So he's, he's.	metaphorical	1
If we got Terry to do that we'd be well away.	metaphorical	1
They, they would love him I mean one of them  it was annoying really cos Terry's just not pulling his weight. 	metaphorical	1
I do n't understand it, if I live to be a hundred I wo n't understand it.	literal	0
And also, it's cos that, you know after we had that row about Terry, after Bank Holiday expecting not to have to do a day in the shop, and er he's already owing Brian a day?	metaphorical	1
Guess who's doing the extra day?  got my dad to cover a day.	metaphorical	1
And then he takes a day off Bank Holidays.	metaphorical	1
 and he ca n't do it because my dad.	literal	0
But then tomorrow he's actually doing his own work.	literal	0
So he could easily have.	literal	0
And on Monday	metaphorical	1
So who's covering tomorrow?	metaphorical	1
Well my brother's covered practically all week and Brian's doing tomorrow.	metaphorical	1
  Terry phoned up asking what, Tuesday morning about quarter past eight said who was covering.	metaphorical	1
And he said well my father is doing today I ca n't do today I'll do it Friday and I shouted down the stairs but he owes you a day you should n't be going in.	literal	0
 I mean he has n't been in the shop once this week.	metaphorical	1
 Somebody's got to tell him to   	literal	0
So do Dave and Terry  in the shop.	literal	0
They have the records. 	literal	0
And it has n't been sorted yet?	metaphorical	1
Oh no.	literal	0
He's got the gall to phone up on Tuesday and say Eileen ca n't do a day, we're going to be short of Eileen.	metaphorical	1
So the answer is to just phone them.	metaphorical	1
I ca n't do it.	literal	0
I'm not doing it. 	literal	0
What's the point of carrying on like that?	metaphorical	1
Well he's going to carry on like that is n't he?	metaphorical	1
Not unless someone puts their foot down.	metaphorical	1
And if your father is currently taking your side of things  worth sounding him out as to how far he'll take 	metaphorical	1
Ah 	literal	0
whilst he's in the mood?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
He's not being that much 	metaphorical	1
You sure?	literal	0
Mmm.	literal	0
He's probably only in the mood cos he's probably upsetting them on his night out cos they go out in the evenings.	metaphorical	1
On a Wednesday evening, do n't they.	metaphorical	1
Cos Terry	literal	0
I mean, would n't he rather have Terry as a sort of permanent worker anyway?	metaphorical	1
It's not being fair 	metaphorical	1
 do any work.	literal	0
Oh what, your dad?	literal	0
Pauline's dad  er 	literal	0
 too expensive I think.	literal	0
Terry uses the shop to get extra money every so often, uses my dad  ticking over running when he 	literal	0
Why.	literal	0
He does get the offer, I mean  	metaphorical	1
 two months and she phoned up and I kind of made out it got lost in the post.	metaphorical	1
I erm  got, check you've got two days, you've got give me the estimate, it's got to be on because she's expecting it to be done straight away on the computer and sent.	metaphorical	1
And he actually got that one done.	metaphorical	1
Do you know it was only five lines.	metaphorical	1
I mean I could have made it up it was that easy.	metaphorical	1
So I sent that off.	metaphorical	1
She was in first thing, I mean I sent it off that evening she was in first thing the next morning yes that's fine.	metaphorical	1
So he's got that job and another one.	metaphorical	1
She's trying is n't she? 	literal	0
I do n't understand why it surprises you, that's what gets me.	metaphorical	1
I mean  	literal	0
It's normal behaviour.	literal	0
  Charlotte's done it too. 	literal	0
Can you pass me that er, sheet?	metaphorical	1
This?	literal	0
Is that your reading?	literal	0
That's not your regulations you have to read is it?	literal	0
Oh no, that's a 	literal	0
I was going to say that does n't seem very thick 	literal	0
No, that's to do with this tape.	metaphorical	1
Oh I tell you what is quite funny these, the act.	literal	0
Mmm.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
 hereby enacted  her gracious majesty, you know, etcetera etcetera.	literal	0
What was it, the Lords temporal and spiritual, that's what they call themselves.	metaphorical	1
Now that is, that's 	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Yeah I realise and I hope  I do n't come into contact with too many acts of parliament. 	metaphorical	1
Oh, we had someone round to see the house yesterday.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah?	literal	0
They came twenty minutes early, there's Brian up in the shower, there's me stuffing things in the cupboard under the stairs.	literal	0
 That's an old trick.	metaphorical	1
I said to Danny, do n't open the door.	metaphorical	1
Do n't open the door!	literal	0
So as I'm still trying to stuff things away, she opened the door and everything fell out.	literal	0
 look round the front room, then they looked round the, the garden.	literal	0
While they were looking round the garden I  you've got to get out the shower quick.	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
They'd come down from, they'd come down from,  erm, somewhere or other.	metaphorical	1
They're just doing a kind of tour of loads and loads of houses cos they keep moving with his job.	metaphorical	1
Oh, right.	literal	0
She quite, I think she liked the area, she was saying about the schools and that.	metaphorical	1
 Mind you, she likes erm  and they're all separate, all the best ones round here are.	literal	0
She said do n't they have any details?	metaphorical	1
So I said well, no it's not  now is it, it's erm, oh it's that school that the.	metaphorical	1
Something and School of Arts now it's called  well technical	literal	0
School of Arts round here?	literal	0
No it's another, well technical, 	literal	0
 performing arts here.	literal	0
 performing arts and that's the technical	metaphorical	1
It's a monstrosity.	literal	0
Oh you rotten old pig, you've been sick.	metaphorical	1
Oh she has n't?	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Yeah, it's alright. 	literal	0
 is it washable?	literal	0
Yeah, I think so.	literal	0
You'll soon find out. 	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Do you feel better now?	metaphorical	1
Obviously. 	literal	0
 I think she thinks she's got some milk now.	literal	0
Enough enough, do you want to go buy some Polo?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Alright stop it then  keep that	metaphorical	1
Come on.	literal	0
Just a minute love.	literal	0
Put it on  alright?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Off we go.	literal	0
Right off we go then.	literal	0
See you later  	literal	0
Yep, where are my keys?	literal	0
Where did you put them, in the dining room?	literal	0
Found one what?	literal	0
Polo.	literal	0
Polos  just one Polo.	literal	0
No just one packet.	literal	0
  I think we might be able to manage that.	metaphorical	1
Aha.	literal	0
Off we go 	literal	0
Just a minute darling  it's alright I  can afford to buy you a packet of Polos.	literal	0
Off we go again  I go home.	literal	0
Pet hold mummy's hand  hold mummy's hand, there's a good girl  off we go.	metaphorical	1
I give you money.	literal	0
Bye.	literal	0
Bye  watch out.	literal	0
Shut the door  there we are.	literal	0
Bit chilly, I run round. 	literal	0
A bit chilly is it?	literal	0
 Is it a bit chilly?	literal	0
 Never mind.	literal	0
Yes that is a bit chilly.	literal	0
What's a bit chilly?	literal	0
That's a bit chilly, he's a man.	literal	0
It's a man, is he a bit chilly, he does n't look chilly  he's got a coat on.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
 Look at me when you're talking to me I ca n't hear you.	metaphorical	1
 a man. 	literal	0
It's a man  there's lots of men.	literal	0
Can I go on there?	literal	0
Can you go on where?	literal	0
Oh oh  thank you. 	literal	0
Oh you want to walk on that, oh Charlotte    come on then, you're pushing me into the road.	metaphorical	1
Go in the road.	literal	0
I do n't want to go in the road.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
You do.	literal	0
I do n't.	literal	0
I go on there  see.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Gon na fall.	literal	0
Oh dear, I'm sorry.	literal	0
  Who's coming to see you today?	literal	0
 Can you remember?	literal	0
Grandma.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
A train.	literal	0
Who's coming to see you?	literal	0
Grandma's coming to see me.	literal	0
Grandma's coming to see you, that's right and who else?	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
 Grandma and	literal	0
Granddad.	literal	0
Granddad that's right.	metaphorical	1
Granddad.	literal	0
Or it's Grandpa  Granddad's in American is n't he?	metaphorical	1
 Granddad's a long way away, he's on holiday.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, on holiday.	metaphorical	1
On holiday that's right, he sent you a letter did n't he?	metaphorical	1
 He sent you a letter.	literal	0
Hold me a little bit.	metaphorical	1
What love?	literal	0
 Hold my hand nicely sweetheart, there's a good girl  we're coming up to a busy road in a minute and it's dangerous  Walk nicely darling, there's a good girl  walk nicely  just stand still a minute sweetheart  hold my hand  Charlotte please hold my hand there's a good girl.	metaphorical	1
Little bit further.	metaphorical	1
Little bit further yes, it's not very far  it's not very far	metaphorical	1
It's not very far.	literal	0
to the shop is it?	literal	0
 not very far.	literal	0
Not very far no.	literal	0
Oh that's a hole, a hole.	literal	0
A hole in the road yes there's lots of holes in this road.	literal	0
Can I go on there?	literal	0
Can you, oh alright then.	literal	0
lot's of people dig up the pavement do n't they?	literal	0
Can I go on there?	literal	0
Can you, yeah go on  no you hold my hand please  no running away, no running away  there's too many cars  alright.	literal	0
No I'm not  I'm not.	literal	0
Not what?	literal	0
We're not going in the car are we?	literal	0
No we're not going in the car we're walking  are n't we?	literal	0
 Oh Charlotte loo will you pick up your feet.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
Oh nearly there.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
 Right we go across the road now  nicely.	literal	0
Cross the road.	literal	0
Cross the road now you stand there  stand still, give me your other hand  good girl right  now is it all clear	literal	0
Now you can cross.	literal	0
O K off we go  off we go.	literal	0
Off we go.	literal	0
Off we go  up the step there's a good girl.	literal	0
Ooh ooh ooh.	literal	0
Charlotte please, can you walk nicely?	literal	0
 Pardon?	literal	0
It's here.	literal	0
We're nearly there yes.	literal	0
In here.	literal	0
No we're not going here we'll go a bit further.	literal	0
No you must hold my hand darling, it's too dangerous  too many cars  alright  too many cars.	literal	0
What?	literal	0
 I ca n't hear you sweetheart, speak up.	literal	0
Charlotte  what did you say?	literal	0
 What did you say?	literal	0
 I ca n't hear you I'm sorry  wait till we get in the shop  too noisy all these cars is n't it  there we are nearly there now  nearly there.	literal	0
Now where are those little, biscuits we had before?	metaphorical	1
Hello, I did n't see you.	literal	0
Oh hello, how are you?	literal	0
How you getting on?	metaphorical	1
That another one?	metaphorical	1
Oh yes.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
How are you anyway?	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
How you keeping?	metaphorical	1
Oh, alright.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Exhausted.	metaphorical	1
Alright there.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah  hard work with two.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, but, Charlotte, she's looking away, hey.	literal	0
Are you going to say hello?	literal	0
Do n't be rude come on, say hello, do you remember Lynn?	metaphorical	1
Have n't seen you for a long time have you?	metaphorical	1
No, not happy with me today.	metaphorical	1
 She's lovely.	literal	0
Ha, how's Natalie?	literal	0
Oh she's alright, she goes to school.	literal	0
Does she, doing exams yet?	literal	0
Yes,.	literal	0
Is that?	metaphorical	1
She's done started it already.	literal	0
She's started?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
How's she doing?	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Yeah, still Natalie  to learn, the way, how I look at it.	metaphorical	1
Pardon?	literal	0
She's not ready yet to learn.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I think somebody's tired.	literal	0
I would n't keep you, I give you a visit one day.	metaphorical	1
Yes, do come pop in.	metaphorical	1
We're usually there.	literal	0
I'll give you a ring.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
We do n't get out much at the moment.	metaphorical	1
Nice baby again.	literal	0
Oh yes, and the big one.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Twelve pounds now.	literal	0
Twelve pounds.	literal	0
Yeah, she's only coming up for six weeks, mm, a monster.	metaphorical	1
 little boy, a boy?	literal	0
No it's a girl.	literal	0
Girl again.	literal	0
Mm another girl, I know.	literal	0
 another go	literal	0
No, two girls that's nice, we got two girls, they've got two boys, Brian and, so that's alright,, we're quite happy.	metaphorical	1
Someone to pass the eh clothes down to, in n it?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh dear.	literal	0
Charlotte I've got to finish, get home and feed this monster, do n't do that please.	metaphorical	1
See you then.	literal	0
O K, see you soon, yeah, bye.	literal	0
Charlotte.	literal	0
Do n't cry.	literal	0
Be good another day.	literal	0
Do you like these?	literal	0
Do you like these?	literal	0
, we'll get some of those, I'll put them in, in the trolley, come on, now Charlotte please do n't start being naughty, do n't start.	metaphorical	1
Charlotte mummy get cross with you if you start this nonsense, just got to get some dog food and some bread then we can go home, O K?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Do n't you say no to me.	metaphorical	1
You do n't want me to get cross do you?	literal	0
I do n't want to get cross.	literal	0
Oh I know, we need some more raisins do n't we?	literal	0
Shall I go and buy some more raisins?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Difficult to pick up this is n't it?	metaphorical	1
I want one.	literal	0
Oh you ca n't hold that?	literal	0
Right let's find the dog food.	literal	0
Food for Jessie.	literal	0
Right you stay there, mummy get the dog food.	literal	0
We do n't need cat food.	literal	0
We do n't need cat food, we have n't got a cat, silly girl.	literal	0
 cat food.	literal	0
We do n't need cat food.	literal	0
You only buy cat food if you've got a cat.	literal	0
Meow.	literal	0
And we have n't, got a meow.	literal	0
Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow.	literal	0
Just a minute get some of this.	literal	0
Meow.	literal	0
Mum.	literal	0
Mm?	literal	0
What do you like?	literal	0
That.	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
What's in here?	literal	0
What's in there, we've got biscuits, I'm just going to get some raisins, alright, they're just up here, you stay there.	metaphorical	1
Here we are.	literal	0
I want raisin.	literal	0
You want some now do you?	literal	0
Alright, I can open this up, I got the little box, there you are, just a minute and, oh Charlotte, oh you are a menace, there you are, now you be quiet for a minute will you?	metaphorical	1
Let's get some peas, I think that's it then.	metaphorical	1
  Right, O K, now we can go, now we can go home.	literal	0
Four add four and then	metaphorical	1
Four add four equals eight.	metaphorical	1
Two times four equals eight, right?	literal	0
Yeah, like that.	literal	0
And then two	literal	0
And  two times four is eight.	literal	0
Erm I did n't write it like that then.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Share the total of fives	metaphorical	1
Yeah, I done, yeah I done	literal	0
Er	literal	0
Five, five, five is fifteen.	literal	0
Five add five add five	metaphorical	1
Erm is fifteen.	literal	0
and then erm.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Is fifteen.	literal	0
And then	literal	0
And sixes	literal	0
Sixes  six	literal	0
si	literal	0
add six add six	metaphorical	1
add six	metaphorical	1
add six	metaphorical	1
is thirty six.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Six times six is thirty	literal	0
I've done that one.	literal	0
sixes.	literal	0
That's it.	metaphorical	1
Okay?	literal	0
Erm  this.	literal	0
I'll leave that out.	literal	0
Leave that out.	literal	0
Add them up.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
  That much closer   can use those pictures.	literal	0
Take a look.	metaphorical	1
Are they near the box?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Is that right?	metaphorical	1
Four	literal	0
Four is twenty!	literal	0
So it's four  so	literal	0
Four times five is	literal	0
Twenty!	literal	0
Four times five equal twenty.	literal	0
Er  two times  six equals twelve.	literal	0
 Er  four times three equal twelve.	literal	0
 Er, two additions left.	metaphorical	1
Alright.	literal	0
Those two add?	metaphorical	1
So it's like one, two, one, two and one there and  but put like  erm  seven add seven  add seven is.	metaphorical	1
Is twenty one.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Seven add seven add seven is twenty one	metaphorical	1
One.	literal	0
  And three times seven	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
is twenty one  and do it that way, five and fives.	metaphorical	1
Okay?	literal	0
Two addition questions.	metaphorical	1
Hang on.	metaphorical	1
Two ad yeah but you've got right two multiple  and two addition equations.	metaphorical	1
Not equations!	literal	0
You told us this!	metaphorical	1
But i thi, like these, these are equations.	literal	0
So  two addition equations  er  three times se  seven plus seven plus seven is twenty one.	metaphorical	1
Right?	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
A so, but you can also go	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah add three.	metaphorical	1
Three plus three plus three plus three plus three plus three is twenty one.	literal	0
Do it that way on.	metaphorical	1
Do you follow	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
me?	literal	0
Yes I do.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Two multiplication	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
and two addition.	metaphorical	1
Two addition.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
So you, like, you.	literal	0
Yes, that's right.	metaphorical	1
Then, it's like erm	literal	0
One.	literal	0
seven times three, and three times seven.	literal	0
And three times seven.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
And you do the same there.	literal	0
Same on the adds.	metaphorical	1
And then, this  we do  like	literal	0
Right, she wants currency in two divisions  in each, right?	metaphorical	1
So it's  one, two, three, four, fi	literal	0
That multiplication is a	literal	0
yeah well divisions, okay, so it's twenty one shared by  say, if that's one, two, three, four, five, six int it?	metaphorical	1
Oh I know what I've got!	metaphorical	1
Six times three is eighteen  or three times six is eighteen.	literal	0
I know what I've done.	literal	0
I've put the, I thought it was  er  okay.	literal	0
Six.	literal	0
And division is shared by.	metaphorical	1
So you got to do eighteen shared by  six is three  and eighteen	metaphorical	1
Have you got	literal	0
shared by three is six.	metaphorical	1
So like, you go one, two, three, four, five, six  six times  you swap	metaphorical	1
Three.	literal	0
six times three	literal	0
times three is eighteen	literal	0
is three times six.	literal	0
Six.	literal	0
Yeah, and and you got	literal	0
Six times three and three times six.	literal	0
A and division is  eighteen shared by  three  is six, and eighteen shared by six is three!	metaphorical	1
Yeah?	literal	0
 Got it?	metaphorical	1
I can not read.	literal	0
Three sixes are eighteen!	literal	0
 You got it?	metaphorical	1
And you do the same there?	literal	0
Hang on!	metaphorical	1
I have n't finished  thirty three	literal	0
one yet.	literal	0
That's what I do n't get.	metaphorical	1
Why do multiplication equation for this similar line I do n't a get how you do that?	metaphorical	1
 Is it, would you like us to put	literal	0
It's fours int it?	literal	0
It's fours	literal	0
No two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
It	literal	0
That's twos.	literal	0
No, but it's going to fours look.	metaphorical	1
It's going to  fours.	metaphorical	1
Alright.	literal	0
Going into fours.	metaphorical	1
What would I put?	metaphorical	1
Er  one four is four, two fours are eight, and thre three fours is twelve.	literal	0
As  this is been shared by  lines int it?	metaphorical	1
Yeah and it's on that one.	metaphorical	1
You do it like that do you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah, cos it's being shared by	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
So it's, I would say that is  er  nine times four equals thirty six.	literal	0
And on that one is  er, sixty three shared by nine  six time  sixty three divided by nine	metaphorical	1
 four.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Sixty three divided by  nine is six!	metaphorical	1
Write six through it.	literal	0
Ten six  in n it?	literal	0
No, it's ten sixes.	literal	0
No, no wait a minute.	literal	0
Nines.	literal	0
What should nine times ten Emma?	literal	0
One nine is nine, two nines are eighteen, three nines  are	literal	0
Twenty seven.	literal	0
Four nines are thirty six, five nines are forty five, six nines fifty four, seven nine are sixty three.	literal	0
Oh thank you.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
 Yeah, seven nines are sixty three.	literal	0
Hang on a minute!	metaphorical	1
Six nines are	literal	0
  seven nines are sixty three.	literal	0
Hang on a minute!	metaphorical	1
Seven	literal	0
Seven nines are sixty three!	literal	0
Sixty three.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
You work them out like that look.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Well seven nines, well ee er, it takes you so long	metaphorical	1
Look one, one nine is nine	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Two nines are  eighteen.	literal	0
So that one there is  sixes into si thirty six.	metaphorical	1
I know!	literal	0
But I still do n't get what you have to write!	metaphorical	1
Well multiplication equation for this number line  I would say is  er  I've already told you that.	metaphorical	1
No, but I do n't know what I have to, I have to write!	literal	0
Eight times four equals thirty six.	literal	0
Do n't get it.	metaphorical	1
Because it's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven  eight, no sorry, nine times four is thirty six.	literal	0
Nine times four equals thirty six.	literal	0
Like this look!	literal	0
Write it out on a piece of paper and you'll  and I'll write them down.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
You do it yourself!	literal	0
I've told you what to do.	literal	0
You do it like that.	literal	0
I do n't get it though!	metaphorical	1
I'll tell you if it's right.	literal	0
 I'm just writing the answers out for you!	literal	0
I told you what to do.	literal	0
That's lazy!	metaphorical	1
Int it?	literal	0
You crafty cow!	metaphorical	1
If I give you a bit of paper and the lot, yeah well you know what to do and go to school and  fill them in!	metaphorical	1
Could n't it?	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Hey?	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Your dinner's ready now.	metaphorical	1
She says to me  I've explained to her how to do it and she says yo I'll give you a bit of paper you just write down the answers!	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
You know what she's gon na do go to school and put them down!	metaphorical	1
Crafty little sod she is!	metaphorical	1
I'll only  with them.	literal	0
That's squeaking and creaking is n't it?	literal	0
When you come in.	literal	0
Good afternoon.	literal	0
Just a spot of information  with somebody.	metaphorical	1
Ooh out of breath from this hill.	metaphorical	1
 Erm  bungalow in St Peters Road.	literal	0
Ah, thank you.	literal	0
Can you  give me the particulars?	metaphorical	1
Yes certainly.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
  yeah.	literal	0
It's the one right bang on the main road?	literal	0
Yeah that's the one.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
And anything else  up to about forty five-ish.	metaphorical	1
From about thirty five to forty five.	metaphorical	1
Thirty five a snatch back or the  repossession type thing I suppose.	metaphorical	1
  one of my daughters is er	literal	0
What er sort of area?	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Preferably Johnston  er but it really does n't matter.	literal	0
It really does n't matter to be honest with you.	metaphorical	1
How many bedrooms?	literal	0
In saying that hang on, no, hang on.	metaphorical	1
 Do you want it, do you want a bungalow?	literal	0
It is n't, well yes.	literal	0
Not necessarily, no no a house would do.	metaphorical	1
Er Milford	literal	0
There's	literal	0
Johnston  Arford Not way out, you know?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
That's quite nice.	metaphorical	1
How many bedrooms?	literal	0
Preferably three but two   get by with.	metaphorical	1
There's a new development in Johnston, that one.	metaphorical	1
Oh that one ye oh yes, I know.	metaphorical	1
We know that er yes  when we were looking.	literal	0
 Yeah.	literal	0
 Mm.	literal	0
Thank you yes.	literal	0
Okay. 	literal	0
 is fifty six thousand you see.	metaphorical	1
I thought it was going to be, yes yes.	literal	0
Do you want the details anyway?	metaphorical	1
Yes please.	literal	0
Yes just in case.	literal	0
One never knows.	literal	0
You never know.	literal	0
There we go.	metaphorical	1
One never knows.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
I thought it would be 	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
Well that's the asking price. 	metaphorical	1
How, how many beds did you say?	literal	0
Preferably three but not essentially.	literal	0
Two er one, if it's a two bedroom they're into the caravan outside.	literal	0
For the spare bedroom, usual thing.	metaphorical	1
Mm. 	literal	0
 cottage which  quite nice.	literal	0
 Lower Thornton That's actually gone, been reduced now to	metaphorical	1
Where the hell's that?	metaphorical	1
Lower Thornton As you er approach  you know the Horse and Jockey  Milford?	literal	0
Yes we do, yes. 	literal	0
You turn right.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh which way are we approaching it?	literal	0
And.	literal	0
From this end or?	literal	0
From this end, yeah.	literal	0
Yeah, go on.	metaphorical	1
You turn right 	literal	0
You turn right and you go down it and you'll see a sign for Lower Thornton.	metaphorical	1
Oh thank you, yes.	literal	0
It's down there.	metaphorical	1
That  been reduced to forty four thousand 	metaphorical	1
I see, yes, yeah.	metaphorical	1
been reduced.	metaphorical	1
Do you want me to write that on?	metaphorical	1
Please yes.	literal	0
Thank you. 	literal	0
Excuse me please.	literal	0
Sorry.	literal	0
I'm so sorry.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
 knock and shove me but I always get in the way.	literal	0
There you go.	metaphorical	1
Thank you.	literal	0
Right okay. 	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
Well my wife and I have only been here, living here ooh just over twelve months now so we do n't really know the	metaphorical	1
You do n't know the area, no.	literal	0
Not frightfully well, no.	literal	0
Oh, where are you from?	literal	0
From Manchester.	literal	0
Been 	literal	0
Oh  whereabouts?	literal	0
Chorlton or Chorlton cum Hardy if you want the full glory.	metaphorical	1
Do n't tell me you were too?	literal	0
 Whereabou	literal	0
 I used to I used to l live in Stockport 	literal	0
Stockport.	literal	0
Oh  or what have you  yes.	literal	0
Yeah. 	literal	0
Did you indeed?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 Road or?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 I know. 	literal	0
 move down in October.	metaphorical	1
Did you really?	literal	0
Good gracious.	literal	0
And of the two places	literal	0
Mm?	literal	0
of the two places, where would you sooner be?	literal	0
Here.	literal	0
.	literal	0
Should have come here what	literal	0
I think you need to I think you need to really  of been somewhere else before	metaphorical	1
Yes, I accept that.	metaphorical	1
to realize, you appreciate.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Y you're absolutely right there.	metaphorical	1
You really are.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Cos er you feel as  you ju people moan about this sort of area  they just do n't realize how.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
How many think of the credit column.	metaphorical	1
Precisely.	literal	0
 Yeah.	literal	0
Well our milkman, to be honest with you, it got to the stage where he would n't collect milk at night  to collect the cash at night.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
In.	literal	0
Yeah Chorlton can be  Chorlton's on the border of erm  oh god	literal	0
Stretford	literal	0
Yeah there's Stretford is n't there?	literal	0
No but what	literal	0
Mollyrange Stretford, Mollyrange er	literal	0
Molly Mollyrange.	literal	0
That's the bit is n't it?	metaphorical	1
I, I can remember Mollyrange sixty years ago and it was a very very different place, between you and me it really was.	metaphorical	1
Yeah. 	literal	0
Mosside was n't too bad sixty years ago but now, good gracious.	literal	0
Well you would n't dare leave your car parked.	literal	0
Oh no!	literal	0
Oh the wife and I went  around Mosside the day after the riots there and, do you remember the riots?	metaphorical	1
Perhaps you do n't.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
In the coloured area.	literal	0
They were smashing shops and burning cars and what	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
You could feel the atmosphere when you were sat in the car.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Well we	literal	0
Disturbing.	literal	0
It was that bad that we went  when I bought my house in Manchester	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
we went er round Mollyrange to get to you know the	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah. 	literal	0
the erm  that good place that sells secondhand er or damaged erm	metaphorical	1
Range Warehouse	literal	0
Range Warehouse, that's it yeah.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Very good.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Very good	literal	0
And er	literal	0
value for money, yeah.	literal	0
thing is that you know we were at w we, actually we got lost and were asking directions.	metaphorical	1
People  people were running away from you.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
 I mean it was so funny because it was	literal	0
Yes. 	literal	0
a sunny day	literal	0
Yeah, and yet  mm.	literal	0
and  and yet you know it was a sunny day.	literal	0
Nick had his sunglasses on, he must have looked a bit touched. 	metaphorical	1
 we just stopped and  bloke	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
one woman, sorry, that literally ran away from us.	literal	0
They completely ran away.	literal	0
It was unbelievable.	literal	0
Yes I can believe it, yes.	literal	0
Yeah yeah.	literal	0
Well the the  really?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
There's a friend of my wife and I she's, what age is she now?	literal	0
Well at the time she was in her  very late thirties, schoolteacher.	metaphorical	1
 And she bought a house in Mollyrange.	literal	0
I did n't know about it, I did n't even know she was looking for one then.	metaphorical	1
 Er we saw her one day she said oh I've got the keys by the way.	metaphorical	1
I said oh, keys for where?	literal	0
You know.	literal	0
Oh I've got a house in.	literal	0
I said oh, whereabouts?	literal	0
 One side of the road there were three brothels and on the other side there were four.	literal	0
She was a schoolteacher.	literal	0
She'd no idea, very innocent, very er church, you know?	metaphorical	1
Oh yes, father was a parson and	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
she lasted there about six months, that was all.	metaphorical	1
Mm mm.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Cos it's er it's weird really, it's like a good ar good area and bad areas.	literal	0
Oh it's very patchy.	literal	0
But it's interesting, Mollyrange, if you draw a line down the centre  Pakistanis on that side and Jamaicans on that side.	metaphorical	1
Seriously.	literal	0
Seriously.	literal	0
So what made you want to move down here? 	metaphorical	1
Well we've wanted to move for twenty five years possibly.	literal	0
But you know how it is, it's family ties and kids growing up and  then they grow up and have families of their own, then you get tied to the ch grandchildren or what have you.	metaphorical	1
I've been pushing for a long time but erm  down here?	metaphorical	1
Well  I have a brother-in-law living in Stainton He's lived there, he retired there some what, ooh fifteen years ago, more than that.	metaphorical	1
 He'd been pressing me to come down here for a long time.	metaphorical	1
When I used to bring my wife	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
drive down  drop her off at  in-laws.	metaphorical	1
Cup of tea, turn the car round and go back.	literal	0
I could n't stand the bloke at the time.	metaphorical	1
An ex Manchester lion  board of directors, very very full of himself.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
He'd been used to having chars and minions running round him.	metaphorical	1
Took him a while  now he's a very nice chap.	metaphorical	1
 Took him a while to calm down. 	metaphorical	1
But now yeah  it took him a while to calm down but he's a very nice fellow now, very nice chap.	metaphorical	1
And erm  we searched over north Wales first of all but phew no thank you.	literal	0
Extension really of Manchester in a way, north Wales.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Then we er  got a letter from  ah my daughters, one of my daughters  one of my many daughters  married to a coastguard in Milford.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Erm  she spotted a house in the paper, sent it up.	metaphorical	1
I said oh come on, we might as well go down and have a look.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And we went down, liked it and that was it.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Been down here ever since. 	metaphorical	1
And regretted that we had n't come before.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh well	literal	0
Oh seriously.	literal	0
at least you're here now. 	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Right, okay. 	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Thank you very much my love.	literal	0
If you fancy viewing any of them just give us a call.	metaphorical	1
Oh indeed yes, that's right.	metaphorical	1
 Well I'll  concern it with my daughter first of all naturally.	metaphorical	1
Mhm.	literal	0
Cos I d I hate wasting, I remember when we were selling ours, the time wasters, the people that had no intention of buying.	metaphorical	1
There's actually one there, Magic Cottage that's quite nice.	literal	0
 A magic cottage?	literal	0
  Did I hear right?	literal	0
M A  G I C, magic?	literal	0
Magic.	literal	0
Mm, it's called.	literal	0
Good gracious.	literal	0
Erm  there you go.	metaphorical	1
Again it's fifty four so, but you never know.	literal	0
Well you never know, yes exactly, yeah.	literal	0
 Oh you've got a pretty picture for it?	literal	0
Oh it's just come in, obviously yeah.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Obviously just come in.	metaphorical	1
 That  reminds me.	metaphorical	1
When we bought our house, thank you.	literal	0
Thank you very much indeed.	literal	0
Erm  we had the original full blow up	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
from the estate agents.	literal	0
And erm  we sent it to  well one of my other sons in Australia there and he was thrilled to bits.	metaphorical	1
 oh you did very well with your photography.	metaphorical	1
I thought  	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Just too late I see.	metaphorical	1
Never mind I'll come	literal	0
Oh well never mind you'll  come back later 	literal	0
I'll come back later.	literal	0
Thank you very much for your time love.	literal	0
Bubye.	literal	0
Bubye.	literal	0
Bubye.	literal	0
  Forgive me smiling but  does everybody do that, fall over the step there?	literal	0
Same as me.	literal	0
There's  not much of me but.	literal	0
Erm what if anything have you, erm these are  enquiries I'm making on behalf of my daughter.	metaphorical	1
Anything from about thirty five to forty five.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Two bedroomed, no?	literal	0
Round Arford, Johnston and Milford	literal	0
Yeah we've got quite a few actually.	literal	0
Have you?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Good good good good good.	literal	0
Thank you. 	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
I never realized it's first time  price.	literal	0
Shall I just  give you out a load and 	metaphorical	1
Give me out a load, yes.	metaphorical	1
And we can browse and  	metaphorical	1
Yeah there's quite a lot actually in that price range of homes.	metaphorical	1
Are there really?	literal	0
Oh 	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Oh look at that, thank you.	literal	0
Very well oiled runners on those er	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
drawers have n't you?	literal	0
Bit too much	literal	0
They get a bit carried away actually.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
That middle drawer over there keeps coming out all the time.	metaphorical	1
 Mind of it's own job, yeah?	metaphorical	1
Yeah we've got a poltergeist 	metaphorical	1
Yeah yeah.	literal	0
Funny I'd just been saying that, just been reading a book  allegedly written by erm Uri Geller, you know the	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah?	literal	0
and he claims to be er  able to move things and do the poltergeist stunt, you know?	metaphorical	1
Yeah?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 Claims to be. 	metaphorical	1
Yeah I've seen him  on the telly 	metaphorical	1
Oh yes, yes.	literal	0
They reckon if you concentrate with him you can do the same 	metaphorical	1
Indeed yes.	literal	0
He claims that's been done.	metaphorical	1
Exactly.	literal	0
That's right, yes.	metaphorical	1
Some people can, yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Well, yeah.	literal	0
In his last chapter in the book he claims he did a  a beam me up scottie business and	metaphorical	1
Yeah exactly, yes.	literal	0
That I find a little bit hard to believe.	metaphorical	1
One minute he was shall we say in Arford, next minute woof, he'd shot to Johnston through somebody's window?	metaphorical	1
Oh! 	literal	0
Yeah I know.	literal	0
Yes exactly.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 That is pushing it.	metaphorical	1
Think think think, she says.	literal	0
Think.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Is Haycastle too far?	literal	0
Er  I I do n't know Johnston frightfu er  Johnston!	literal	0
I do n't know er   only be a matter of	literal	0
Mind you that's the other direction to Johnston.?	metaphorical	1
Well possibly, I do n't know love.	literal	0
She might.	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
Erm  Well she might well do.	literal	0
 You've given a goodly little pile here.	literal	0
Well there's quite a few.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 Mm.	literal	0
 A niece of mine living in  tells me that it's picking up slightly, the property market.	metaphorical	1
Would you agree with that or  I find that hard to believe.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
No I do n't think so, no.	literal	0
Not really, no.	literal	0
It's	literal	0
No, no.	literal	0
People are holding off now  cutting back 	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And, exactly, yes, yes.	literal	0
Quite, yes.	literal	0
Yes, yeah. 	literal	0
There is some property moving but	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
nothing exciting really. 	literal	0
Do you want to ditch me and grab the phone before it 	literal	0
Erm I'll give you those 	literal	0
Alright, thank you.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Marvellous.	literal	0
Good gracious.	literal	0
 Yes  a goodly pile.	literal	0
Quite a wide range.	metaphorical	1
Erm	literal	0
Erm  erm 	literal	0
Would she be willing to?	literal	0
Oh indeed yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 Yes.	literal	0
 You're going to an awful lot of trouble for me love.	metaphorical	1
That's alright.	metaphorical	1
No problem at all.	literal	0
There you go.	metaphorical	1
I think that's about it  that price range.	metaphorical	1
Fine.	metaphorical	1
Thank you very much indeed. 	literal	0
Basically all of them are  you know modernized.	literal	0
That one needs	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
a new kitchen.	literal	0
It needs tidying up but you can see that the price 	metaphorical	1
And the stuff ripping out the front.	literal	0
Oh I hate those things, personally, but still, there we are.	metaphorical	1
Matter of, exactly yes.	literal	0
I agree with you.	metaphorical	1
There we are.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
Er yes, I s suspect they must have paid a lot of money to have that done too.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Well, yeah.	literal	0
 in that case, yeah.	metaphorical	1
?	literal	0
Er  at this stage I do n't think so to be honest with you because	metaphorical	1
 can give us a ring.	metaphorical	1
Well exactly, yes, she can give you a ring erm  or I could give you a ring for that matter erm.	metaphorical	1
expensive business for her, phoning from Manchester,.	literal	0
 Yes  yeah erm  no there's little point just now, go on then  she's thought of something else. 	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
Ooh.	literal	0
 There's enough to keep me going for the week there is n't there?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
  Forgive me for saying so but the lighting in here is appalling, you  do n't you get headaches?	metaphorical	1
Sorry?	literal	0
Do n't you get headaches from	metaphorical	1
Yeah, now and again.	literal	0
Yeah I thought you would.	literal	0
Terrible light that.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Does n't help with the dark ceiling, that soaks it up does n't it?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm. 	literal	0
Well we're gon na be expanding into next door  erm	literal	0
What when the property market picks up?	metaphorical	1
Well  well we're gon na do it anyway cos we just have n't got enough room	literal	0
Oh I see.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 market really.	metaphorical	1
Really?	literal	0
Is it really?	literal	0
Good gracious me.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Erm I could	literal	0
No sorry.	literal	0
Go on, yeah.	metaphorical	1
give you a form if she wants to take it and fill it in, right?	metaphorical	1
Fine, thank you.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, I can post it to her.	literal	0
 Give her a tinkle and er  yeah.	metaphorical	1
Well that'll save.	metaphorical	1
Mhm. 	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
If she wants to go on the mailing list, just cut that bit off and fill that in and post it on to us.	metaphorical	1
Fine thank you.	metaphorical	1
Well yes exac thank you, because my wife writes to her practically every week	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
and she can bung this in with the er	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I mean a letter does n't 	literal	0
Well yes.	literal	0
Quite, yes, yes.	literal	0
Thank you my love.	literal	0
Fine.	metaphorical	1
Yes indeed.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
It's cheaper than phoning is n't it?	literal	0
Aha.	literal	0
Yes it is.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 Right.	literal	0
You can get back to you're er whatever you're getting back to.	literal	0
I du n no.	literal	0
 Pretending to be busy.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Or are you busy?	literal	0
Well I'm drawing lines.	metaphorical	1
Drawing, oh well!	metaphorical	1
Marking out boundaries.	literal	0
Ma oh!	literal	0
It's getting more and more important as it goes.	metaphorical	1
I'll try not to fall down the step when I go.	literal	0
 Thank you my love.	literal	0
 Goodbye.	literal	0
Bubye. 	literal	0
Why did n't you want  to buy the same one again mum?	literal	0
Well I just kind of was running round the shop because I was 	literal	0
You got the first one you could see.	literal	0
I had to go and collect grandma you see to take her to the station, and I did n't have an awful lot of time so I just sort of ran round and collected whatever I got.	metaphorical	1
Cos we would n't have wanted grandma to miss her train would we?	metaphorical	1
 if we did?	literal	0
No, bus.	literal	0
What, miss the train?	metaphorical	1
No bus?	literal	0
She'd have to get the next one.	metaphorical	1
She had to go on a bus actually.	literal	0
Get the train.	metaphorical	1
Cos they do n't have trains from Redditch 	metaphorical	1
Mummy.	literal	0
Do you know why?	literal	0
Mm?	literal	0
Pass the  marge.	literal	0
They only had them from	metaphorical	1
Daddy's got the marge.	literal	0
From Bar Green	literal	0
Can I have the marge?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Is that  is that	metaphorical	1
What a mess.	literal	0
after erm	literal	0
It's between Redditch and Mulbridge 	literal	0
No, between Redditch and Birmingham.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Between Redditch and Birmingham.	literal	0
Mm our daffodils are coming out nicely.	literal	0
They are.	literal	0
I hope the wind does n't blow them over.	literal	0
Be a pity.	literal	0
There's at least one blown over there is n't there?	literal	0
Oh where?	literal	0
 Oh yeah.	literal	0
Where?	literal	0
We'll have to go and collect it, put it in a vase  on the side.	literal	0
Where's one blown over?	literal	0
There look. 	literal	0
A new one?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
It's so windy at the moment.	metaphorical	1
March winds.	literal	0
The others seem to have stood up quite well over on the other side.	metaphorical	1
Where?	literal	0
Where?	literal	0
One of them's dead.	literal	0
Which one's dead?	literal	0
The one which is f  pointed erm straight ahead.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
See what you mean.	literal	0
It's a bit dead.	literal	0
It is.	literal	0
Looks as if it  and the wind's got it again. 	metaphorical	1
Mum, it's not very nice when the wind hits it is it mum?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Still, we can always pick them and bring them inside. 	literal	0
I remember doing that once.	metaphorical	1
I remember	literal	0
finding one and putting the vase on there.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
So where is it now?	literal	0
It will be dead by now.	literal	0
You're talking about last year are n't you?	metaphorical	1
 Last year's flowers are n't around now. 	literal	0
Here you are.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
These are the same bulbs though that have made a new flower this year.	metaphorical	1
Where's the marmalade?	literal	0
I took a bit.	literal	0
Why they keep on making new bulbs?	metaphorical	1
They do it, well  they do it every year.	metaphorical	1
Can I have some marmalade please?	literal	0
Ah. 	literal	0
The daffodils over there in that little bed  seem to be a bit later than all the others, I do n't know.	metaphorical	1
Have some marmalade.	literal	0
Have some marmalade.	literal	0
I'm doing it a funny way this time.	metaphorical	1
I'd of thought they would have got just as much sun  and rain as everything else. 	metaphorical	1
That's a little one.  	literal	0
Mum.	literal	0
Look what I've done.	literal	0
 marmite.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Very posh.	literal	0
Candles.	literal	0
Do you usually do that?	literal	0
If you ask mummy  she'll 	literal	0
What do you want me to do? 	literal	0
I did n't  make that.	literal	0
Oh good.	literal	0
What do you want?	literal	0
Do you want some er marmite on it?	literal	0
 You did. 	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Gone a funny shape. 	metaphorical	1
Daddy has n't seen the new Rosie and Jim.	literal	0
True.	metaphorical	1
Lot of things daddy has n't seen.	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
Inspector Morse.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
 few weeks before we have time 	metaphorical	1
Have you got sp lots of spare tapes?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
. We'll have to have another one next Wednesday.	metaphorical	1
Are they on every week or are they once a fortnight?	metaphorical	1
I'm not sure actually.	literal	0
And you have n't seen  the  the puppet show.	literal	0
I have n't seen one about a puppet show.	metaphorical	1
Is that where	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Rosie and Jim mm	literal	0
Rosie and Jim went to a puppet show did they?	literal	0
They go to Stratford.	literal	0
Yeah a a a and a lion.	literal	0
Stratford?	literal	0
Do they?	literal	0
And there's a lion is there?	literal	0
And a and a lion. 	literal	0
He took an omelette.	literal	0
Omelette.	literal	0
An omelette? 	literal	0
It was quite good actually.	literal	0
And a man came back and.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
And Skinlid went back.	literal	0
Pardon?	literal	0
Skinlid.	literal	0
The skin?	literal	0
Well he's called Skinlid.	literal	0
Is he?	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
I did n't watch it that  closely.	metaphorical	1
Have some more tea.	literal	0
 ate it all up.	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
So if it's a puppet show did Rosie and Jim do some puppeting?  puppet.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
They were in the audience shouting and cheering from what I saw.	metaphorical	1
Where they?	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
Then they went round the back though did n't they?	metaphorical	1
Did they?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
They run round the back and played with the  puppets.	metaphorical	1
When the show was ended	literal	0
Nobody mentioned that they were puppets themselves. 	literal	0
That's what I call a miracle. 	metaphorical	1
 I do that.	metaphorical	1
 I do n't think they like it.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
It was nice to see Stratford.	literal	0
I wonder if that  they filmed that at the time when the boat was in Stratford.	metaphorical	1
Do you remember when we went to	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
we nearly went to see it but we missed.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Cos it had moved by the time we got there.	metaphorical	1
So it might be then they might have taped it?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
It could well have been.	literal	0
But mum it's a bit late from that.	metaphorical	1
Well it's always takes a long time.	metaphorical	1
They  they do these things  months beforehand.	metaphorical	1
And then it comes on the television  later on.	metaphorical	1
How to get to know about these things.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
This chap we were sitting next to   involved in all these canal projects.	metaphorical	1
Oh yes, that's right.	metaphorical	1
He was.	literal	0
Apparently he's a director of various canal preservation bodies and things.	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
 He was certainly into canals in a big way.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah he is. 	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
You'll have to get to know i is he in your?	literal	0
No, he's at Solihull.	literal	0
Oh Solihull.	literal	0
 What was he called?	literal	0
Jonathan.	literal	0
Jonathan.	literal	0
 He was a pleasant chap I thought.	literal	0
Oh yes.	literal	0
As these chaps go.  	metaphorical	1
It was interesting discussing various chaps  after 	literal	0
Oh right.	literal	0
 only just sort of see them occasionally to get the inside stories to.	metaphorical	1
 have drunk.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
How's Julia?	literal	0
She was okay this week.	metaphorical	1
Well, she's a totally  snowed  under	metaphorical	1
Well, it's not	literal	0
with work.	metaphorical	1
 surprising.	literal	0
Like I had to give her some top priorities yesterday  as she was n't going to be about.	metaphorical	1
Actually she did very well on one of those.	metaphorical	1
She did far better	metaphorical	1
Did you tell her?	literal	0
Oh yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Well I made sure my boss told her, that's.	metaphorical	1
Cos he was desperate for  cos he needed an answer for Monday morning for Dave. 	metaphorical	1
It's going to be thinking about science.	metaphorical	1
Dave's erm wife produced a baby last week	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
so he's having a week off you know to change nappies or whatever.	metaphorical	1
It might be or it might not. 	literal	0
Mum, is the video on?	metaphorical	1
I just, I only pressed hold  nothing else.	literal	0
Well you're not to	literal	0
Well since someone else switched it off I should think.	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
I'm not quite sure what happens you see.	metaphorical	1
That's why	metaphorical	1
I just pressed but cos there's a little line.	metaphorical	1
 hear the sound of the video.	literal	0
When?	literal	0
Well I can hear it now.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Yeah I'm wondering whether it's playing to itself, with the television off.	metaphorical	1
Do you think that's likely?	metaphorical	1
Or does it not do it?	metaphorical	1
No, cos it's not got the aerial  it would do.	metaphorical	1
It would do.	metaphorical	1
Would it?	literal	0
Oh dear.	literal	0
It's not got the aerial in.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Should n't 	literal	0
It is it's on it's on the video.	metaphorical	1
It's just that I can actually hear it.	literal	0
I can actually hear the motor on	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
on  turning round 	metaphorical	1
It's on the video.	metaphorical	1
I presume what happens when it's not on it's all geared up ready to 	metaphorical	1
Mummy.	literal	0
Daddy.	literal	0
It's on the video.	metaphorical	1
What's on the video?	metaphorical	1
Telly.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah when er all which is on now  is the blue button.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
It's the blue	literal	0
The blue button's on but nothing else.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
The blue button's okay.	literal	0
Where are you going to?	literal	0
Cloth.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Mum, why are n't you gon na put your microphone on.	metaphorical	1
Well it might as well stay there.	metaphorical	1
Why?	literal	0
Well it can hear us all then. 	metaphorical	1
No that noise daddy	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
What was that?	metaphorical	1
is n't that it's that.	literal	0
Ah but that was n't on before was it?	metaphorical	1
Cos mummy only just come down for breakfast.	literal	0
No, just remembered and rushed off and ge to get it. 	metaphorical	1
But it's true, it does make a noise.	metaphorical	1
 There's lots of noises, lots of electrical things.	literal	0
 see me.	literal	0
The fridge made some really weird noises yesterday.	literal	0
I thought oh  what's going on.	metaphorical	1
Can you see me now.	literal	0
Can I see you?	literal	0
Oh was it vibrating?	literal	0
There's a little bit more just there.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
It does.	literal	0
It  a load or	literal	0
Is it knocking on something?	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
On the top.	literal	0
as you know there's a lot of stuff	metaphorical	1
On the top.	literal	0
In other words mummy, clean your fridge. 	metaphorical	1
That's it.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
Hands now.	literal	0
All clean.	literal	0
Let me have a look.	metaphorical	1
That's  that's not bad.	literal	0
The the fridge is a bit	literal	0
Other one.	literal	0
That looks a bit sticky that one, at the back, does it?	metaphorical	1
 one.	literal	0
No?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Look Tim, we'll have to wind it soon, daddy can work the new one.	metaphorical	1
You're going to watch Rosie and Jim dear.	literal	0
Am I?	literal	0
I'm supposed to wash up are n't I?	literal	0
That's alright.	metaphorical	1
I'll wash up.	literal	0
No you 	literal	0
Mm?	literal	0
Mummy wash up.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
What am I going to do?	literal	0
And you watch	literal	0
Me watch Rosie and Jim?	literal	0
Yeah cos you made the breakfast.	literal	0
That's true, I did make the breakfast.	metaphorical	1
Did you like the breakfast?	literal	0
Come on.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
I have n't got my glasses.	literal	0
I wo n't be able to see it.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
It's PC Pinkerton anyway, it's not even Rosie and Jim.	literal	0
No but that's why I said wind it back.	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
Well wind it back ten minutes.	metaphorical	1
Can you do that, do you know how to do that?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
You watch 	literal	0
Well I ca n't now it's too late. 	literal	0
Come on  dad.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
I'm gon na get your glasses or	literal	0
No no no no Tim.	literal	0
Do n't you touch my glasses.	literal	0
Please.	literal	0
Please.	literal	0
Something weird is happening there. 	literal	0
I know that's 	literal	0
Mummy wash up.	literal	0
It was when you were playing with it with your fingers, do you remember?	literal	0
Anyway it wo n't matter.	literal	0
We can use some pliers or something to  bend it back. 	metaphorical	1
Hello hello hello hello	literal	0
Mummy this is for winter this is n't it?	literal	0
Hello.	literal	0
Your er?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
I do n't suppose we could have it 	literal	0
For  for the chilly days.	literal	0
Well in the summer you wo n't need jumpers will you like this?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Hopefully.	literal	0
If we have a good summer.	metaphorical	1
Mind you in the evening, if it gets quite chilly in the evenings so it might be a good jumper to wear in the evenings when we go for our  evening walks by the sea.	metaphorical	1
Oh what a lovely thought daddy.	literal	0
Next time we go to the sea.	metaphorical	1
 Oh it's the clip.	literal	0
He's been playing with it, he's bent it out so it.	literal	0
It's on at the moment though.	metaphorical	1
  I tried doing it with my fingers but 	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
Thank you dear.	literal	0
Very helpful.	literal	0
 Very helpful.	literal	0
Oh. 	literal	0
Mum, what about giving him something for being very  	metaphorical	1
Giving who something?	literal	0
What do you mean?	literal	0
Here, I'm gon na whisper you something.	literal	0
Go on.	metaphorical	1
Give you what?	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Oh I see.	metaphorical	1
Oh right.	literal	0
Biscuits.	literal	0
No no.	literal	0
Nothing to do with biscuits.	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
We'll have to go	literal	0
Nothing to do with biscuits.	metaphorical	1
do we need to go upstairs first?	literal	0
Er, I think we should. 	literal	0
Come on. 	metaphorical	1
 Chips.	literal	0
 Chips.	literal	0
I think we should have chips, do n't you?	literal	0
MacDonalds.	literal	0
Mac 	literal	0
 Erm  have you got the purse mummy?	literal	0
Erm  I do n't know.	literal	0
Have you got some money?	literal	0
I have n't got any money.	literal	0
It's alright.	literal	0
I've got loads of money somewhere.	metaphorical	1
It's just a matter of 	literal	0
It's stopped raining.	metaphorical	1
Good.	literal	0
Has John got a new car do you think?	literal	0
Oh well I saw that on Friday.	metaphorical	1
In fact yesterday we said I wonder if he's got a new car or  whether he's got visitors.	metaphorical	1
 I should imagine it's a new car.	literal	0
Very posh is n't it?	literal	0
Is it new?	literal	0
I mean	literal	0
It's J reg is it?	literal	0
I I I I told you to.	literal	0
Will it fit in the garage? 	literal	0
It's a bit bigger than our  ford escort.	literal	0
It wo n't mummy.	literal	0
I do n't think it will.	literal	0
If it does n't mum  anyway it would n't fit in the garage because there's another car in there.	literal	0
Oh that's a point.	metaphorical	1
That's a bit tricky.	metaphorical	1
Well we think that that might be a new car.	metaphorical	1
Yeah, we think it's 	literal	0
.	literal	0
 cos we're nearly there.	literal	0
We're not nearly there.	literal	0
We have n't even started. 	literal	0
Nearly there.	literal	0
 Got to be quick.	literal	0
 did you actually go to sleep mummy?	metaphorical	1
I did.	literal	0
Did you? 	literal	0
I was absolutely whacked out.	metaphorical	1
You've done very well.	literal	0
Well I have n't.	literal	0
You've done all the meals. 	literal	0
Dad, could you walk it to MacDonalds?	literal	0
Well you could.	literal	0
It would be a little bit far for us.	literal	0
But we could if we needed to.	literal	0
Would n't be too bad cos you'd go down by the Jolly Farmer.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You'd have to walk like Gemma walks to school would n't you?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Where does Gemma live?	literal	0
Gemma lives  Oakenshaw	literal	0
Yeah, near MacDonalds.	literal	0
Near MacDonalds dad.	literal	0
She lives right near MacDonalds does n't she?	literal	0
She does actually.	literal	0
 Wonder if she goes to MacDonalds every night for her tea?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
 But she could walk it from her house could n't she?	literal	0
She could. 	literal	0
Because it's not far.	literal	0
Yeah all she has to do is go  go round her bit  round just a normal road, across the road  down a little bit  and she's there.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
It's not very far daddy, is it daddy?	literal	0
A teeny  bit.	metaphorical	1
It's only round the corner  from her is n't it mum?	literal	0
 It's only. 	literal	0
 I found it  over here.	literal	0
I ca n't see it.	literal	0
There it is.	literal	0
There it is.	literal	0
There's a lot of people there.	metaphorical	1
Do you think we'll get a seat?	literal	0
Ooh there's a lot of cars.	metaphorical	1
I see MacDonalds.	literal	0
There's not normally that many people there are there?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
It's	literal	0
What?	literal	0
it's a bit full.	literal	0
Oh it looks crowded.	literal	0
Perhaps there's a party. 	literal	0
It's not a party. 	literal	0
Perhaps there's only one person in each car at MacDonalds.	literal	0
 That's true.	metaphorical	1
I ca n't think that one person in a car on their own would want to go to MacDonalds too often. 	metaphorical	1
Like a mum or a dad or  	literal	0
Everybody must have thought what a dismal day this is.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Let's got to MacDonalds for our tea.	literal	0
 Mm it is quite full though.	literal	0
How do you know which way	literal	0
It is.	literal	0
Are we gon na get i I do n't think we're gon na get in.	literal	0
Course we are.	literal	0
What?	literal	0
I've never known it that full before. 	metaphorical	1
Where to park? 	literal	0
There's a space.	literal	0
There are n't any spaces.	literal	0
Well just keep going round.	literal	0
There was some space at the other end actually.	literal	0
There's a space.	literal	0
Just missed a space.	literal	0
I do n't think we did Tim.	literal	0
No there were n't any.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I think there's one just over here.	literal	0
 Oh 	literal	0
How you  space?	literal	0
Where?	literal	0
There.	literal	0
That's the one I saw when I was coming in.	literal	0
Do n't know if you're meant to use it.	literal	0
Well 	literal	0
Are those  erm queuing up though?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
 I'd better get out this side I think.	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
No, your side I mean.	literal	0
Cos it's flowers and things.	literal	0
I  the door.	literal	0
See Ronald MacDonald in person here on Sunday the twenty second of March.	metaphorical	1
I'll go round the door.	literal	0
Appearances at noon and three PM.	metaphorical	1
 I thought the man was dead.	literal	0
I'm going out here.	literal	0
Who is dead?	literal	0
Ronald MacDonald.	literal	0
Is n't he dead, Ronald MacDonald?	literal	0
 Or perhaps it's sort of some dressed up character.	literal	0
Do n't!	literal	0
Okay.	literal	0
Are you coming Christopher or are you going to sit here to have your meal?	literal	0
Just wait Tim cos there's lots of cars.	literal	0
I just going go round.	literal	0
Well just go and stand on that path there cos there's another  another car then.	literal	0
Stay on the path.	literal	0
Wait!  just there.	literal	0
Okay just stay, Tim!	literal	0
Stay 	literal	0
On that path, go on.	metaphorical	1
Stay there.	literal	0
Right stay there, do n't move.	literal	0
Yes. 	literal	0
There's a car there. 	literal	0
Okay, right.	literal	0
Away you go.	literal	0
Ah be quick.	literal	0
Look dad.	literal	0
Yeah sit down.	literal	0
Come on. 	metaphorical	1
Mum, how many straws do we need?	literal	0
How many what?	literal	0
How many straws do we need?	literal	0
I do n't know.	literal	0
Shall I ask daddy and Tim?	literal	0
 How many we might need?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Twenty chicken nuggets please.	metaphorical	1
Twenty chicken nuggets.	metaphorical	1
Any sauce?	literal	0
And er yeah  tomato ketchup and sweet and sour  please.	literal	0
I can have two of each ca n't I?	literal	0
And  french fries.	literal	0
 Yeah two large.	literal	0
And two teas  two teas  two oranges.	literal	0
 Erm  that's it.	metaphorical	1
Do you want a straw?	literal	0
Mum do you want a straw?  straw.	literal	0
Do you want a straw?	literal	0
Oy  mum.	literal	0
Do you want a straw mum?	literal	0
Would you not shout at me.	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
Do n't shout at me.	metaphorical	1
Do you want a straw please?	literal	0
Mummy do you want a straw?	literal	0
I do n't want a straw, no.	literal	0
I I I I want a straw.	literal	0
Mum mum  mummy I want a straw.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
Two thirteen change.	literal	0
Thank you.	literal	0
Dave do you want to take  to that lady in the corner.	metaphorical	1
Can I help anyone?	literal	0
Mum can I take these to the table?	literal	0
Yes, just go and sit with daddy please.	literal	0
Now stop 	literal	0
I'll take them.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
No thanks.	literal	0
Just milk.	literal	0
 Can you two go and sit down with daddy please cos this is getting silly.	metaphorical	1
I want to watch.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Go and sit with daddy.	literal	0
I want to watch you.	literal	0
Go and sit with daddy.	literal	0
No cos you keep shouting at me.	metaphorical	1
Now go away, please.	literal	0
 shout at you.	metaphorical	1
Now please.	literal	0
Go.	literal	0
Go on please.	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I shall just say I'm sorry we do n't want this meal and we'll go away.	literal	0
Go and sit down with daddy please.	literal	0
Okay?	literal	0
 french fries.	literal	0
This thing, is it on, off?	metaphorical	1
Has it been on?	metaphorical	1
It's not been on, no, I've just switched it on.	metaphorical	1
Right,   toast and marmite, times two.	literal	0
I think everything on this erm, machine is to do with food, do n't you?	metaphorical	1
Probably is.	literal	0
You need to sort of stop and talk when you have food.	metaphorical	1
Yes.	literal	0
Yes please  cup of tea  are making it then?    good!	literal	0
 I did manage to sort out  the food for tomorrow and	metaphorical	1
Did you  really?	literal	0
 That's very clever!	metaphorical	1
Well I thought.	literal	0
Did you manage to do alright?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Found.	literal	0
I mean pinched one of  for starters, that makes a difference.	metaphorical	1
Did you try it did you?	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Ah ho, 	literal	0
A pathetic film on, I do n't	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
know what it was about, but it was pathetic!	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
 What's happening tomorrow?	literal	0
What do you mean, what's happening tomorrow?	literal	0
Well what is it tomorrow morning and evening and things.	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
What is it tomorrow morning and evening, and what are we going to do in the afternoon without?	metaphorical	1
!	literal	0
  I know we'll cope but what are you going to do?	literal	0
Are we inviting anyone?	literal	0
 I know we're not inviting anybody for lunch Christmas day  could n't cope with that but it would be quite to have them   in the afternoon    ca n't cope with the people!	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah.	literal	0
 Suppose we should do something, yeah.	literal	0
Well that's what I was thinking, perhaps we could go with somebody somewhere.	metaphorical	1
You know, like by a canal or something.	literal	0
 Perhaps, well if it's snowing it wo n't be quite the same.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
  Conducive to tripping about!	metaphorical	1
 But if it's quite nice weather, it would be nice to invite somebody along  I>expect.	literal	0
They could just.	literal	0
  Stratford?	literal	0
Yeah  the Stratford Warriors   running about every  six weeks  something like that.	metaphorical	1
Is it six weeks since we saw the last one then?	literal	0
They did n't, they we, they have them more frequently now and they're getting even more and more infrequent now for the rest of the year.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
And  next one.	metaphorical	1
That's Mother's Day  twenty second.	metaphorical	1
 Is it?	literal	0
 No.	literal	0
Mother's Day a fortnight	literal	0
Twenty ninth.	literal	0
Somebody will organize a party for Tuesday 	literal	0
Yeah they want a party piece on Tuesday.	metaphorical	1
It's alright you do n't have to,  of cake.	literal	0
 If I do n't bake them now  my mother.	literal	0
Yeah well tell your mother.	literal	0
 I'll have to	literal	0
Yeah I will.	literal	0
get one!	literal	0
And it better be a nice one!	literal	0
Pop into Marks and Spencers they have some  amazing shapes in Marks and Spencers that the children will enjoy.	metaphorical	1
Really?	literal	0
Mind you it might be expensive.	literal	0
 Tesco's are probably cheaper.	literal	0
 You remember that Tom and Jerry I got for Tim?	metaphorical	1
 Because I could n't be bothered to cook it.	literal	0
Well, leave it up to me, I'll see what I can get  I'll get   for the party.	metaphorical	1
Thank you dear.	literal	0
Is that alright?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
I'll get you some.	literal	0
And I'll just make the rest of the  with salad in.	literal	0
You're not supposed to.	literal	0
I've told you what we're gon na for Christopher have n't I?	literal	0
I know, he went to school  to do	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
housework.	literal	0
Is that naughty?	metaphorical	1
  Thursday morning.	literal	0
Right, Christopher  will be back too!	metaphorical	1
I wish I could   I'd like to 	literal	0
You what?	literal	0
Out at the meeting again on Monday night.	metaphorical	1
On Monday?	metaphorical	1
 Where are you going Monday?	literal	0
Going to Sue's house.	literal	0
Oh right  the big  housewife!	metaphorical	1
The housewife  mhm.	literal	0
 like cooking this week.	metaphorical	1
 Ah, I'm having Jane for a piano lesson, are n't I?	metaphorical	1
What day?	literal	0
 Which day?	literal	0
Monday.	literal	0
Are you?	literal	0
 Oh well 	literal	0
So that fits in quite well  I could n't remember what I was doing on Monday  but we said, sort of tentatively Monday would be probably quite a good day  I think.	metaphorical	1
 Better than Thursday anyway.	literal	0
 So could Tuesday night be Inspector Morse night?	literal	0
Yeah cos my mum will be here then.	literal	0
Oh right  can we not take her home?  	literal	0
Unpaid!	literal	0
Well she'll	literal	0
We shall see!	metaphorical	1
have been here all day, wo n't she?	literal	0
 So she might want to go home!  	literal	0
  she wants to tell us all about her wedding	metaphorical	1
Could you tell her we're going to watch Inspector Morse!	literal	0
for the third or fourth time!	literal	0
Will she have watched Inspector Morse?	literal	0
She wo n't of watched it, cos it's bound to be on a Wednesday night!	metaphorical	1
 Does she like Inspector Morse?	literal	0
I do n't think she watches it normally.	literal	0
No, she probably does n't like it.	literal	0
 A bit spicy!	metaphorical	1
I bet she would, she loves anything like that!	metaphorical	1
 Bit of a body!	metaphorical	1
 Mind you, it might be  too complicated!	literal	0
It was  I remember reading in the paper  that it's been  it's been filmed at a house  which no one's ever been allowed to go in  even the great  sort of  one of these country mansions, it was not Bradley Hall	metaphorical	1
Right.	literal	0
And  even people who write about 	metaphorical	1
If it was not Bradley Hall, it ca n't be Bradley Hall again, they're always going in there!	literal	0
Well that's fine.	metaphorical	1
 It was some country mansion in Oxfordshire  you know?	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
It's as you come off the 	literal	0
And how did	literal	0
and	literal	0
they get permission then?	metaphorical	1
They somehow managed to persuade the owners, apparently it was  and it was  and nobody else had ever been allowed in this place  not even  erm historians who write about famous buildings, even they had been refused access!	metaphorical	1
Where is it?	literal	0
Somewhere in Oxfordshire.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
 They do n't know where?	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
 So	literal	0
this was about last week's episode?	metaphorical	1
I think it was about last week's epi, but they seem to e  imply that it was last week's episode that would	metaphorical	1
Oh.	literal	0
do it.	metaphorical	1
We seem to have got one spare video if we do n't get it watched before Wednesday.	metaphorical	1
Alright.	literal	0
 Well that's the only chance.	metaphorical	1
Oh yeah cos we're going to Maryland tomorrow.	literal	0
 your dad.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Erm  not it was n't about your dad, it was about my birthday  cos	metaphorical	1
Cos yo	literal	0
he'd realized that it was my birthday, and wha, what did I want?	literal	0
 So I said send me a cheque and I'll go and shop.	literal	0
And?	literal	0
And   last week cos she's  quite generous is n't she?	literal	0
She is a bit but it's.	literal	0
No, I did n't say anything.	literal	0
I think that's the thing.	metaphorical	1
So your dad sent a cheque.	literal	0
  Anyway I asked her if she'd heard from your dad, and she has heard from your dad  apparently on Friday  he went  to the  consultant	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
and next week he's got his first  well she did n't know whether it was radiotherapy or chemotherapy.	metaphorical	1
 And she said he has to go trotting to Exeter two or three times a week now.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
I do n't know how long it's going to go on for, or what it is exactly but I thought  it would be a good idea to ring your dad up  and see.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
  But at least things have moved, and at least they've gone round.	metaphorical	1
 So I'm pleased really, are you?	literal	0
 Interesting that they've done it so quickly is n't it?	metaphorical	1
After seeing him, because he thought that once  he'd seen the consultant it would then take some time to  get the treatment started, but they must have got themselves over that.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
 Well I mean everyone.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I think.	literal	0
Got ta get moving.	metaphorical	1
And presumably whatever it was the GP had give him  has had tha, upset that thrombosis again.	metaphorical	1
 I do n't know whether to ring him tonight, oh it's too late tonight now.	literal	0
It's much too late.	literal	0
Perhaps we could ring tomorrow afternoon when the children are up?	metaphorical	1
 Well they love talking to them on the phone do n't they?	metaphorical	1
I know they do.	literal	0
We could can prime them up on what to say  and types of things to talk about  so they do n't get  moaned down or something!	metaphorical	1
 Bogged down!	metaphorical	1
So he's had to go in, what did you say?	literal	0
Three times a week?	literal	0
I do n't know  she just said	literal	0
Something like that	metaphorical	1
a few times a week  and I think it sounded like three  cos she was wondering how he would cope with driving and everything.	metaphorical	1
Mm  a trial!	literal	0
Well  I hope not  I mean no he wo n't be able to drive	literal	0
but presumably your mum can do that for, they've got hundreds of people there, he's always driving people everywhere	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
so I do n't see why they ca n't drive him!	metaphorical	1
 I'm sure they will	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
cos they're very good are n't they?	literal	0
I mean look at that woman doing her  er   from the  from the church.	metaphorical	1
At times like this it would be nice if we lived nearer  could help out.	metaphorical	1
It would nice if we lived there but we ca n't so  	literal	0
It's  about.	literal	0
And write as well.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Double dose.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 And pulled out.	literal	0
Well it's sort of pulled out, but at least it's.	literal	0
We'll be paying for it as well.	literal	0
And it's hard as well.	metaphorical	1
We've been paying anyway, so it must of  you know.	literal	0
 What does erm  you see  er  Eileen's   and she's having chemotherapy is n't she?	metaphorical	1
By me, by medication, is	literal	0
that right?	metaphorical	1
Well she takes all these tablet things.	metaphorical	1
That's right  she has a sort of  massive dose every now and then.	metaphorical	1
 And that makes her feel  what?	metaphorical	1
 She's not in pain  is she?	metaphorical	1
More sort of  dopey.	literal	0
I would n't care if they made me dazed 	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 I du n no.	literal	0
Not gon na 	literal	0
Difficult to know.	literal	0
Oh yes, that was it!	metaphorical	1
 I wonder how bad it is, that feeling's like, we do n't really know  how bad it is do we?	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
Perhaps he will be able to say, you know?	literal	0
 But whether he'd tell us over the telephone,  you think ask.	metaphorical	1
 I think he would would n't he?	literal	0
I think so.	literal	0
Cos we've got the AGM in two weeks time	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
and we voted all these people that are here	metaphorical	1
What type   of this?	literal	0
Well you just	literal	0
It does n't matter.	literal	0
you just come along do n't yo you find out	literal	0
what we do with all the money, and you find out  who's doing what, and who's doing  you know?	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
It's  it's quite exciting really!	literal	0
If you!	literal	0
But  I've 	literal	0
These little things 	metaphorical	1
You could n't show me something 	literal	0
Alright	literal	0
you see, cos it's	metaphorical	1
We're confusing her now cos 	literal	0
This is where we're going  not Towcester  alright?	literal	0
This page?	literal	0
This, yes  we're taking over a couple of	literal	0
When, when's that then?	metaphorical	1
places in Leicestershire.	literal	0
When is it?	literal	0
And we're going on a coach  so you do n't you	literal	0
have to worry  no.	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
And it'll be really rather dolly, we'll have a little holiday you see  together  and we sort of  go teaching together and	metaphorical	1
How long is it for?	literal	0
It'll  on a Friday afternoon, Friday night	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
you know, five, half five-ish.	literal	0
And what do you do?	literal	0
And come back on a Sunday	metaphorical	1
And	literal	0
afternoon.	literal	0
you've been before?	metaphorical	1
Well we've never been this place before, but we've been on a similar do.	metaphorical	1
And what do you do then?	literal	0
Well, we have	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
all sorts of things organised	metaphorical	1
Yeah, and pull out some special 	metaphorical	1
people are coming to do some Christian teaching for us, you know  somebody from the 	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And then there's gon na be silly things like walks, you know and	metaphorical	1
Lots of play!	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
and lots of	literal	0
and lots of fun activities so they go  and they do little trips out	metaphorical	1
And have they got	literal	0
you know, to the localities, you know?	literal	0
 And you get to know people, that basically	metaphorical	1
Oh yes, yes!	literal	0
it, and you can relax in these	metaphorical	1
Is it	literal	0
amazing little sitting rooms!	literal	0
I can ha, you know I do n't know, if I go over there now to  and I said please  show me this  no, I'm not!	literal	0
You see everything  I wo n't go, especially now since he's retired!	literal	0
He does n't wan na know!	literal	0
I wo n't go anywhere with, I do n't want to go without him!	literal	0
Well you tell him!	literal	0
I ca n't  	literal	0
We want him here, we do n't wa, we do n't want	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 just you.	literal	0
Unless  I feel terrible about it! 	metaphorical	1
We can offer you, you know, a nice twin room!	literal	0
Twin room.	literal	0
 I thought it was lovely of him!	literal	0
A twin room!	literal	0
   seat belt, oh it does n't tell you on that one  wait a minute  bargain break 	metaphorical	1
 look at the price!	literal	0
 Look at the price!	literal	0
Ah,  pension.	literal	0
That would be it, would n't it? 	literal	0
Retired	literal	0
Yes, forty pound a go, see!	literal	0
 That's only about sixty	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
pound for a whole weekend in beds, breakfasts	metaphorical	1
Is it really!	literal	0
evening meal	literal	0
How much?	literal	0
the lot.	metaphorical	1
In that beautiful 	literal	0
And it's a very beautiful place.	literal	0
beautiful house.	literal	0
And you'll get a separate room	literal	0
Is it?	literal	0
to yourselves.	metaphorical	1
Do you have a separate room?	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
Yeah, oh yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
All in to  oh come on, get yourself organised  book yourself in and 	metaphorical	1
Yeah 	literal	0
 Cos I  cos I had	literal	0
You  if I do n't  I!	literal	0
We are   bossy  is the word!	literal	0
No good for me!	literal	0
 I really think she's good for, but  ooh I get out of breath  but 	metaphorical	1
Well you tell	literal	0
 by the lakeside you know, it's like a big	literal	0
Oh right!	literal	0
and then she's!	literal	0
I know!	literal	0
I think she's got to know well enough that	literal	0
We've only got little.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I know.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Since, I mean  when it was on the back I thought oh  I do n't know how you get used to each   since he took the evening out  and then he's different bloke	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
I said to you    you know	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
and I said, he said no you're not being   but sometimes I feel as though I am, you know, it's the change!	metaphorical	1
No, you ca n't tell  I would n't know, unless you said.	literal	0
I sit down to the table, and watch me, real men are n't like that are they?      and it locks	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
and some sit in, you know, it's locked.	metaphorical	1
Yes, yes.	literal	0
So I go, have job to find it  he just looks at me hard as nails.	metaphorical	1
Well he's not a party-goer really	literal	0
No, it's only cos he does n't	literal	0
He's not.	literal	0
understand it.	literal	0
He's er  he could do without this then!	metaphorical	1
I suppose a little Greek mythology did fit in really,    lived with you as long you've lived with him really!	metaphorical	1
Yes!	literal	0
Here we are  two  role forms.	metaphorical	1
I'll leave you to it	metaphorical	1
Oh	literal	0
  just	literal	0
do you have to	literal	0
tell Gerald that	metaphorical	1
Do you think I'll be able to fill these in?	metaphorical	1
Hello Dot!	literal	0
Hello!	literal	0
 We're here again!	literal	0
What's that?	literal	0
It's alright  do n't worry about it.	metaphorical	1
I say what have you got on your	literal	0
She's taping it all, she holds it against you, you see, so she's trying to blackmail!	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
It's all to do with language in the nineteen nineties Jean.	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
And  this man came to the door, and he went to get the hold  belt, that should just have a tape recorder on conversation just throughout the week  so it's getting all sorts of rubbish going in there, 	metaphorical	1
and it's all do with erm  you know  people and the erm  wives and  language of the nineties.	metaphorical	1
Go and get a drink!	literal	0
I shall move, yes dear.	literal	0
So I get a free twenty five pound worth of Marks and Spencers erm  gift vouchers which.	metaphorical	1
  what twenty?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Have to cut costs.	metaphorical	1
Bribery and corruption! 	metaphorical	1
I hear you've got two twentieth century!	literal	0
I'll do anything for money and chocolate!	literal	0
I hear you've got two twentieth century	literal	0
Oh right  yeah well I was so worn out	metaphorical	1
What have you got?	literal	0
that the pages are always sticky with sellotape and so on.	literal	0
Actually it must be quite interesting looking at the development of language as time goes on.	metaphorical	1
Mm  well that, that's all, that's  for?	metaphorical	1
It'll be interesting in the year two thousand and ninety to look back and see what we used to do in the nineteen nineties.	metaphorical	1
I should think I'll be dead just then!	literal	0
I do n't think I'll be around then	literal	0
Well you wo n't	literal	0
somehow!	literal	0
be around but it'll be fascinating cos you'll be recorded for life June!	literal	0
That's it!	metaphorical	1
And I'll	literal	0
Sorry  I'm going to speak to Dot, I was just going to speak to Dot and I'm 	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
 I should n't talk to her if I were you.	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
Say something sensible.	literal	0
Yes love  I am going to say something sensible!	literal	0
 come to tell you	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
how many little  do you have?	literal	0
It varies  considerably  you can have eight  you can up to fourteen  except fifteen  why, how many do you want in?	metaphorical	1
No, it's alright cos someone's rung up from home,  say be in eight o'clock, so  she wants to do something.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
She said ooh, you know  can I  invite a couple of friends, can I invite sort of  you know, people back to lunch  but when it's sort of  the list  I mean, cos I  I'm not 	metaphorical	1
Invite.	literal	0
Well I've got to know, cos sort of   adult as well, I mean you included as   I mean it's to put 	literal	0
Getting a bit long?	literal	0
Yes!	literal	0
I'd invite them 	literal	0
Yes, I mean it's her sort of age.	literal	0
 old!   of having it!	literal	0
Well that's  you know what I mean, it's got the.	literal	0
It's more cosy!	literal	0
 And at home.	literal	0
If she wants  her sister, 	literal	0
No, yeah but on the day  no, on the day	metaphorical	1
When is it?	literal	0
Can we go?	literal	0
Erm  	literal	0
I know that, but will you make it stick.	metaphorical	1
Yes, oh well.	literal	0
 Can you be a path finder leader on the Sunday because 	metaphorical	1
No,!	literal	0
No, you know what I mean?	literal	0
 But, if you can  you know agree to tell him 	literal	0
And the   	literal	0
But I'll find them, and you wo n't have any bother.	metaphorical	1
Oh I know, but I mean sort of there, I do n't know she would actually when it comes to it, but if we see her up there  cos we can do the  	metaphorical	1
It's nice to see erm  Michael and Sophie 	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Actually it's quite a cosy group, so they probably know each other by	metaphorical	1
yeah.	literal	0
now then.	literal	0
  yeah.	literal	0
  Looks a bit agitated!	literal	0
But anyway	literal	0
that's somebody that would  would be  a few 	metaphorical	1
Telling everyone about her mum and dad when they   and erm  how she talked to her mum about that, and it helped her.	metaphorical	1
But her mum  I mean I know 	literal	0
cos I mean, I know her mum.	literal	0
She 	literal	0
Well vaguely, but 	literal	0
Are they moving to  to be with someone else  or	literal	0
I do n't know, I mean I do n't 	literal	0
But perhaps he does n't want to change till  cos she'll 	literal	0
Yeah but she	literal	0
so whether they think, well so it's after six months, 	metaphorical	1
Well 	literal	0
I du n no.	literal	0
Is that alright?	metaphorical	1
They were, they were really nice.	literal	0
I hate  being sick and one thing another  well, it turned out 	metaphorical	1
Yeah you do.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Sophie was supposed to be doing the chorus  so I grabbed Mary, and said come with me on the  half way through, called Sophie  why are you doing all the talking Dot  and not Mary!	metaphorical	1
Cos she 	literal	0
Cos she's supposed to be Andy!	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
So, Sarah had a job to do, but it was n't, sort of, till the end, and we're gon na finish too quickly because normally we have it    like Paul and Helen  being really with it  and  look  there's sort of  upward	metaphorical	1
Oh no!	literal	0
and then down below there's Helen  you know  Christopher and	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
then Laura's with him.	literal	0
 But none of them turned up to today  so  	literal	0
Actually can you really face the  from the other   pathfinders	literal	0
Mm  cos she'll see you there.	literal	0
Cos  we're having, not problems, but at school it really   it's unfortunate because she was put in a third year, and she's only a third year now  and she was on a third year class last year.	metaphorical	1
Who else is there with her in there?	metaphorical	1
 They're all	literal	0
Well we've actually chose the brownies now  her age.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
But it really hit her this year, we felt quite disgruntled	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
that I really    but I mean last year   still not finished!	literal	0
She's really funny!	literal	0
 So we had a laugh ov, well   said he  when he woke up, he said day one  you can do three on one day!	metaphorical	1
Mind you, she's like that, better get	metaphorical	1
When you're feeling keen I said, you can do a lot and then 	metaphorical	1
They're rather weed, I know my two even.	metaphorical	1
erm  rather than	literal	0
I suppose cos he's done that at school	metaphorical	1
Yeah, that's right!	metaphorical	1
they come home they've got ta snuggle up in bed with a book	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
you know, or  Patrick's into psalms, she loves poetry  	metaphorical	1
psalms, I thought!	literal	0
Why not!	literal	0
I used to do it, oh what psalm is it she?	literal	0
I've forgotten, about being in mud  was it a?	metaphorical	1
 Ri, she did it.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
But as they do, it's gon na hit her cos it's not year that  it does n't help, see if she's in a third year class, she was always  as she is now, in the top of that, but even	metaphorical	1
That's right.	metaphorical	1
when she was only a second year   therefore  that means, she's not given enough work, but I mean 	metaphorical	1
I know what you mean.	literal	0
She's sort of got  with children then because this erm  testing, they've got to  a school work outside	metaphorical	1
 curriculum.	literal	0
they've go, that's it, the  they do have to take them on to	metaphorical	1
ta	literal	0
the next 	metaphorical	1
I mean	literal	0
Yeah  well she's sort of with the third year and will admit  she's so fed up!	metaphorical	1
But I, I'm 	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
there's a lot of!	metaphorical	1
I mean I'm glad she's  er September, and an August birthday, I would of hated to have gone	literal	0
Well I'm glad of that  my children  cos all	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
mine are like that, 	metaphorical	1
and  it does mean that they can relax  you know  about  work and everything	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
cos you know  they're  a million times ahead.	metaphorical	1
They've got an extra.	literal	0
Yeah  have n't got to worry.	metaphorical	1
 all of them  so when  her class came up, cos she'd been with the class  right from nursery  and  when she put into this  you know, with the double third year, cos they go upstairs for third and fourth year  and they really do   classes below  she did n't know anything in the class!	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
I mean er  she, they were n't	literal	0
No  I suppose er  it's a bit hard on th, the kid, sort of, work wise, expecting her to be her to be er  ahead, but not	metaphorical	1
But friends means such a lot do n't they, at that age?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
They see.	literal	0
Oh right  yeah.	literal	0
 We've got, we've still not got it yet!	literal	0
Oh, you've got the!	literal	0
Well we had, we had it two weeks ago	literal	0
Yes, and they were away too.	literal	0
They were away.	literal	0
, gon na be away another two weeks by the sound of it.	literal	0
But when she gets back	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I do n't know, I must talk to Marilyn about it.	metaphorical	1
 Shame really.	literal	0
 There again it's  if we give 	literal	0
Oh, oh are you?	literal	0
we'll give	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
we're giving it to her.	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
She's got the, she wo n't.	literal	0
Oh yes, I do n't feel she's despised in any way.	metaphorical	1
I shouted breakfast is ready and then I started my breakfast, cos you had gone upstairs were n't you? 	literal	0
I do n't think we've got any  this morning	metaphorical	1
Are you going to work?	literal	0
Yeah, he's going to work	literal	0
How did it get really big mummy?	literal	0
How's Tim, cos he does n't sit down properly	literal	0
He's, finished.	literal	0
Have you seen the butter Tim?	literal	0
Is he a fidget	literal	0
He's kneeling up	literal	0
Is that enough milk Christopher  it's very good 	literal	0
It's just that I'm saving.	metaphorical	1
Put it more milk over the, that, what about that bit there dad.	metaphorical	1
Er mum it does n't matter where everything's got milk on does it?	metaphorical	1
It does n't matter what?	literal	0
Where everything's got milk	metaphorical	1
Here's one	literal	0
when everything's got milk on it 	metaphorical	1
No, I would n't eat half of an apple	literal	0
here's one 	literal	0
Will you sit down on your bottom	literal	0
oh no	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
cos I do n't 	literal	0
I think I'm looking forward to a normal day honey 	metaphorical	1
Yeah, would be when I'm away.	literal	0
This is 	literal	0
A bit proud of it you know 	literal	0
Bit of a 	literal	0
 seems to be wide awake could of got up	metaphorical	1
What, was 	literal	0
I were n't very good I'm afraid	literal	0
What day is it?	literal	0
What do you think?	literal	0
It's	literal	0
It was Tuesday yesterday.	literal	0
What day is it today?	literal	0
There's Monday, Tuesday 	literal	0
Wednesday	literal	0
Wednesday well done	literal	0
Yes,  on a Wednesday, this is the day when mummy goes teaching at school in the afternoon	metaphorical	1
I did	literal	0
Christopher's school	literal	0
Mm, mm.	literal	0
and do you still have story time 	metaphorical	1
 story time I think, Mrs  still there  and that Mrs    did he tell you 	metaphorical	1
Yes he did, with Imogen 	literal	0
Alright,   it's old age you know,  	literal	0
Erm, you did n't tell me anything about what  said	metaphorical	1
 wants a whole do n't are they?	literal	0
Who wants a whole?	literal	0
 want to swap it over	literal	0
A whole?	literal	0
Erm	literal	0
Certainly not a whole that one	literal	0
Do you want a whole? 	literal	0
Yeah, I want a whole  with that whole	literal	0
Erm apparently	literal	0
You ca n't have a toast cos I'm gon na have a one	metaphorical	1
You have a half of it so  the whole of it.	literal	0
I wanted a whole one	literal	0
Oh no you do n't	literal	0
I wanted a whole	literal	0
I do n't like wholes	literal	0
You'll get  it'll be half a whole, get me a bit confused here 	literal	0
Erm especially 	literal	0
I did see it on the 	literal	0
Mum 	literal	0
Mum, can I have a whole piece of toast please?	literal	0
No, 	literal	0
Is Tim having it?	metaphorical	1
It's 	literal	0
Oh dear	literal	0
Mum	literal	0
I just wondered 	literal	0
I forgot to 	literal	0
Oh dear	literal	0
I spoke to  that was Monday night, yeah, she's been head of department, did I tell you that?	metaphorical	1
You did n't say anything about that	metaphorical	1
Oh right,  I thought I told you then.	literal	0
No, 	literal	0
Oh, well she rang up, I've seen Christopher in the catalogue	metaphorical	1
actually	literal	0
and	literal	0
they	literal	0
and could ask if publications can 	literal	0
the one that we see	literal	0
We've seen the book	literal	0
yeah, ah, ah, she's seen the catalogue, ah	literal	0
she's got, on the, yeah	literal	0
I see	metaphorical	1
he's in the catalogue	metaphorical	1
oh yeah	literal	0
I thought it was going to be a magazine?	literal	0
Oh, oh no, you're getting confused, you know the book that is out, that is on	metaphorical	1
Yes, yes	literal	0
beginning careers, well it is in a catalogue, the book is in a catalogue, yeah, so there's a front cover of the book sitting in the catalogue smiling at her, saying please buy this book of Christopher.	metaphorical	1
Oh I see, so he's even more liked	metaphorical	1
Yeah 	literal	0
We do n't want to buy it, we just want the catalogue 	literal	0
I see, oh 	metaphorical	1
So she's ordered it because 	literal	0
 she's started Liam, they're having a pre-packed school at Durham choir boys, whatever it is, cos he's from school,  apparently the locality of demanding six year olds and under  so they and another la labouring school	metaphorical	1
Oh 	literal	0
Oh Tim 	literal	0
Put it on there, oh it's too late to put it on there, oh that's alright do it like that	literal	0
I ca n't	literal	0
You can use your cloth daddy	literal	0
Mum 	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
you have n't, mum,  does n't know 	literal	0
No 	literal	0
You do it 	literal	0
What are you 	literal	0
You do it	literal	0
Do what?	literal	0
Mm	literal	0
What do you want me to do?	literal	0
That  do 	literal	0
Just leave that on the plate like that, that's fine	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Er	literal	0
It's  when we're going to take it in the kitchen and put it away when we've finished.	literal	0
Anyway 	literal	0
I've had enough	metaphorical	1
Right, just, she said she's going to be head of department, it starts at ten  OK, so she'll be ahead of herself, then as  she'll be responsible for getting staff  said she still has n't, got  she said, little love 	metaphorical	1
I did n't want a, a whole	literal	0
Timothy wanted the whole dear	literal	0
They've both got whole	literal	0
Oh that's clever	literal	0
That's it	literal	0
They  they both had half a whole, I thought that's what you said half a whole 	metaphorical	1
Oh dear, yeah that was my fault, sorry  now if you have my plate then you wo n't have any trouble with that  erm, what 	metaphorical	1
Erm, I'll eat the half 	literal	0
Teach us what age are they?	literal	0
Erm, erm	literal	0
What age will she teach then?	literal	0
 seven, eight year old boys at the moment, and she will teach children under	metaphorical	1
That's enough	metaphorical	1
she, which is what she did at  well she had the five to six	metaphorical	1
 read	literal	0
I guess she really liked those, she only got moved because of  er the 	metaphorical	1
Yeah	literal	0
spread it	literal	0
I am	literal	0
Hurry up cos he wants the margarine, can he have the margarine while you're spreading on?	metaphorical	1
I think you've got enough there have n't you? 	literal	0
Mum	literal	0
Mm	literal	0
I've had the 	literal	0
Did you?   	literal	0
Yeah I had it go over there 	metaphorical	1
When we've had half a whole, I'm thinking half a whole	literal	0
 we have got half a whole	literal	0
No they've got half a whole	literal	0
Oh, they've also got half a 	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
I thought I was making the best of both answers	metaphorical	1
You were dear, very clever 	literal	0
I can do it, how can you tell the difference?	literal	0
Well there's two different wholes are n't there?  chop toast  you can chop either that way or that way 	metaphorical	1
The one with you chop the chop and then there will be squares	metaphorical	1
That's right, there will be four then, four bits, life is so complicated.	metaphorical	1
Mum, but it's tricky  because when, when you chop that way, and then that way  chop it that way it's all	metaphorical	1
Mum	literal	0
 and 	literal	0
Ours do actually	literal	0
Empty now Tim?	literal	0
What would you like now Tim on there?	literal	0
Seemed to have got rather a lot of margarine on there, hope you're going to eat all your toast today, not like yesterday 	metaphorical	1
Erm margarine	literal	0
the margarine	literal	0
yeah	literal	0
you've got margarine what else would you like? 	literal	0
 Marmite	literal	0
Mum, my fingers are 	literal	0
Rice Krispie in where?	literal	0
In my tea, oh yes there is, soggy, it's out	literal	0
 how did it get there?	literal	0
I do n't know	literal	0
 plopped in	literal	0
,  toast in my 	literal	0
Probably dropped in when we were shaking them in the bowl, Rice Krispies seemed to get everywhere, undo the thing and there's Rice Krispies everywhere, 	metaphorical	1
And there not only good	literal	0
It's a hoover day today Tim	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
We have n't clean for ages	literal	0
It's hoover day	literal	0
so we'll have a go at it today	metaphorical	1
And where I gon na go?	literal	0
You're gon na help me, you're gon na stay here I'm afraid 	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Me and you doing the cleaning in the morning now granddad's off	metaphorical	1
What I, where I gon na go?	literal	0
You're not going anywhere, you're staying here	literal	0
Can I help you plant the?	literal	0
Bulbs, er probably not cos I think I'll have to do while you're at school cos daddy tells me it's gon na rain this afternoon, I'll have to do that this morning, pity that.	metaphorical	1
Why ca n't we do them tomorrow?	literal	0
Because it said on the packet you'll plant them immediately after buying and we do n't know when Aunty Gwen bought them  and it might rain tomorrow as well, I think I ought to put them in while it's fine, now	metaphorical	1
In	literal	0
in the ground, I'll save you a couple if you like, you can plant two by yourself.	metaphorical	1
I'm not a plant that you  must of bought them yesterday.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I'm  	literal	0
You want to plant them, you can help me plant them cos you'll be around 	literal	0
Can I have	literal	0
It seems pity to go to school and not plant bulbs 	literal	0
And daddy going to go work	literal	0
Yeah, there be me and you planting bulbs and cleaning the house this morning	metaphorical	1
That's a lot 	metaphorical	1
Yeah it's a jobs morning this morning  kitchen floors a good thing, we'll have to kitchen floor Tim, that'll be fun wo n't it?	metaphorical	1
With Christopher	literal	0
No he'll be at school, just me and you, scrubbing away at the floor  you'd rather do it with Christopher would n't you?	metaphorical	1
 Sorry about that.	metaphorical	1
Tim  help us do the garden	literal	0
Mm, well he wo n't because you'll be at school   	literal	0
you'll have to wait till the holidays and then Christopher can join in and  	metaphorical	1
It  Saturday's	literal	0
Mm	literal	0
Where holiday	literal	0
Where is I have, where we have to go to	literal	0
When you what what, say that all again	metaphorical	1
Because, mum how long are we staying at Jo's?	literal	0
Oh that's ages away you know, it's not till May, you can go two nights at Jo's	metaphorical	1
Two nights about and what day do we go?	metaphorical	1
Go on Saturday	metaphorical	1
Saturday, so we go home 	literal	0
No	literal	0
go home	literal	0
stay Saturday night and Sunday night and we go back on Monday	metaphorical	1
yeah	literal	0
but we wo n't be going home, we'll be going to York 	literal	0
Straight after	metaphorical	1
Mm, mm	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Cos we  it's a long, long way to Jo's  and just to go, right all that way for two nights would not really be worth it.	metaphorical	1
Tim   erm licked your knife,  right can we erm have a  I've got to go in a minute.	metaphorical	1
 I'll just have that	literal	0
I wish  to choose	literal	0
Oh dear	literal	0
Erm, 	literal	0
A wise man built his house upon the rock, a wise man built his house upon the rock, the wise man built his house upon the rock and the rain came tumbling down, and the rain came down and the flood came up and the rain came down and the flood came up	metaphorical	1
A wise man built his house upon the rock, a wise man built his house upon the rock, the wise man built his house upon the rock and the rain came tumbling down, and the rain came down and the flood came up and the rain came down and the flood came up	metaphorical	1
I  drop it	literal	0
the rain came down and the floods came up and the house on the rocks slid down, but the foolish man built his house upon the sand, the foolish man built his house upon the sand, the foolish man built his house upon the sand and the rain came tumbling down	metaphorical	1
the rain came down and the floods came up and the house on the rocks slid down, but the foolish man built his house upon the sand, the foolish man built his house upon the sand, the foolish man built his house upon the sand and the rain came tumbling down	metaphorical	1
splish, splash and the rain came down and floods came up, the rain came down and the floods came up, the rain came down and the floods came up and the house on his band fell flat	literal	0
and the rain came down and floods came up, the rain came down and the floods came up, the rain came down and the floods came up and the house on his band fell flat	literal	0
That's the flat bit	metaphorical	1
Mm	literal	0
Mum	literal	0
I'll be	literal	0
Are you ready?	literal	0
 Lord Jesus, thank you for a nice sleep, thank you for another day, please help us to do the kind of things that you want us to do, prayer for Christopher to behave at school, help him to do his best and for daddy at work, for Tim and I as we stay at home, help us to know the kind of things we do and this afternoon when grandma comes we'll spare the time for her as well, Amen.	metaphorical	1
Amen	literal	0
I think he's, I read and the rain do	literal	0
Rightie oh oh.	literal	0
Can you wipe your hands please cos you'll get sticky all over the piano	literal	0
Mum I've wiped	literal	0
Do it again	literal	0
Do it more	literal	0
do it lot's and lot's	metaphorical	1
cos I've noticed it's very sticky on here, that you should wipe it cos it 	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Cos it, if you put sticky fingers on, you wo n't mean to, it'll just wo n't 	literal	0
How did you know before you touch the piano?	literal	0
Because I felt them last night and felt ooh this sticky    anyway  oops	metaphorical	1
You be home normal time or even earlier   later  	literal	0
I was, estimate normal time	literal	0
Mum	literal	0
Ok	literal	0
which hand do I have to do it with?	literal	0
half side each or 	literal	0
mum	literal	0
What?	literal	0
Mummy	literal	0
well I think half five, but then sometimes quarter to	metaphorical	1
Yeah I know	literal	0
Mum	literal	0
I suppose I ought to think quarter to six	metaphorical	1
mummy	literal	0
so I have this pleasant surprise when I	metaphorical	1
I stay in the car cos er I do n't want to walk, too cold	literal	0
You do n't want to walk where?	literal	0
To school it's	literal	0
Well we have to walk to school love	literal	0
in the car,	literal	0
In the car  let's do a gap Christopher 	literal	0
One, two, three, four	literal	0
That's very good	metaphorical	1
Bye Tim	literal	0
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight	literal	0
Bye, bye everybody	literal	0
Bye, bye everybody	literal	0
Bye, bye everybody,	literal	0
well	literal	0
daddy	literal	0
bye, bye daddy	literal	0
I do n't know what I'm saying	literal	0
One, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four	literal	0
 it	literal	0
Tim will you eat it up please?	literal	0
You  it	literal	0
one, two, three, four	literal	0
you do n't want it all, that your trouble?	metaphorical	1
I do n't want them all up there	literal	0
Why not?	literal	0
Let me chop you that much, you eat up that	literal	0
Did you hear what I said mummy?	literal	0
Mm, oh very good are n't you?	literal	0
Did that one then	literal	0
Can do you it, can you?	literal	0
Can you do that one?	literal	0
Oh you've got to do some writing first.	literal	0
I do n't want to  again, 	literal	0
Oh  come on Christopher  come and sometimes it in the right panel, that's the right panel there and then it goes in the left hand and then it goes to the right hand and then it goes to the left then right, the left, the right, left, right, left, confusing, but it's that hand to start with	metaphorical	1
and go like this  one, two, three, four	literal	0
it goes one, two, three, four	metaphorical	1
they go  one, two, three, four	metaphorical	1
hang about, you see what it says here  oh you do n't play that one, just the something for you to write underneath, I thought it was complicated	literal	0
Did, did,	literal	0
that's all something to do with writing that one 	metaphorical	1
 need to read a song?	literal	0
I do n't need to, no, you just have to write it	literal	0
Is it this one mummy?	literal	0
Yep 	literal	0
My  get a 	literal	0
Come on Tim please  move	metaphorical	1
Oh, oh	literal	0
or else we're going to be late 	literal	0
are we doing the bulbs now?	literal	0
are n't we, yeah it's going to rain as well, look at that, we're gon na have to put our coats, our rain coats on 	literal	0
Oh	literal	0
it's raining in time for us to go to school, come on 	metaphorical	1
Oh Tim come on, aagh 	metaphorical	1
He bought himself er a padded shirt, you know?	literal	0
A padded shirt like Alfred had for Christmas?	literal	0
Mum 	literal	0
 Robert had for Christmas. 	literal	0
He had one for Christmas did he?	literal	0
Well I, I, I asked him what he wanted for Christmas	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
and he said get me a padded shirt, he said, Joycie's getting me one he said and I want two. 	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
So that's what I bought him.	metaphorical	1
 And I was looking in the  yesterday  and they sell them in You Ca n't Go Wrong for five ninety nine  for Robert.	metaphorical	1
Mm. 	literal	0
Ten ninety nine he paid for his.	literal	0
It's a nice, nice thick one though.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mind I saw them in tt  they were the same price in erm You Ca n't Go Wrong  and  tt the place opposite Woolworths in Caerphilly	metaphorical	1
Yeah. 	literal	0
 Campaign  on a what do you call it  and erm  and funny enough I was reading the Campaign yesterday and I was looking at the er  thing and they've got a sale on have n't they?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Anyway, erm  we went to the Ca Polly had n't seen them in the shops anywhere and went to Caerphilly market on Saturday morning    and as we were coming from it he said look there's a shirt you want for Robert there.	metaphorical	1
 So I thought well in case I ca n't get them anywhere else  the market and he said well we'll have one from here, twelve ninety nine.	literal	0
 We goes up town the following week then to get   and I forget what I was looking for, oh it was  I was looking for your blouse	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
and erm they had this one down in the shop next to er 	metaphorical	1
Aye and erm they had them in the window there  twelve ninety nine.	literal	0
Mm. 	literal	0
And I went down, I went somewhere else  there was a few places I saw them     so erm  I said to, I said to Robert now you know those shirts, that shirt I bought you for Christmas?	metaphorical	1
And he said yeah  I said I could've got two for the price of one.	literal	0
    see that then.	literal	0
 Padded leisure shirts five ninety nine   and I read the bloody thing out yesterday.  	literal	0
No wonder 	literal	0
Nan can you see them 	literal	0
Yes love. 	literal	0
They've dug up  	literal	0
Yes they 	literal	0
I ca n't get up now mummy.	literal	0
I ca n't  	literal	0
Oh  you know 	literal	0
padded shirts for  padded shirts nine ninety nine to twelve ninety nine. 	metaphorical	1
Cos Ken said, first of all he could n't find any and he said oh he said perhaps I should've bought them when I saw them, nine ninety nine.	literal	0
But anyway he saw this one stall and he had a look and they had three racks of them   for ten ninety nine   and then we found some others then, they were  they were ten ninety nine but they were as thick as these other ones.	metaphorical	1
They were twelve ninety nine.	literal	0
But erm the shop  opposite er you know there's the market and there's a cake shop, opposite there by the  shop, they've got a sale there.	metaphorical	1
Stock clearance.	literal	0
By, by the, you know  wallpaper 	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
and then there's a shop next to it and he's selling er stock clearance sales there and that's where he saw them, the padded shirts, there.	metaphorical	1
Mm	literal	0
But I did n't look, I did n't stop, it was raining so bad Thursday morning and windy that I  I went to the market, I cut straight through and went up  and Di went to get the paper then he went.	metaphorical	1
So we, we were back in here by half past eleven Thursday  I did n't want to stay out in the cold.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
Yeah 	literal	0
Yippee!	literal	0
I wan na get him another towelling dressing gown because the blue one he had on the caravan he brought home for the winter  bring them home and wash them.	literal	0
But he would he said do n't wash it I wan na wear it.	literal	0
So really he could do with one for down there and one for home.	metaphorical	1
 But the	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
only other one he's got is a silk one   so er I was gon na go  on Tuesday and have a look  and they had them there before Christmas, seven ninety nine  and, but it said one size  now I do n't know whether the one size will fit Di because the last one I had for him I sent away for and I had erm     so I do n't know whether them down there would fit, they were seven ninety nine, there were white and lemon and pale green  that was striped I think.	metaphorical	1
 They had some nice thick ones in Peacocks but they were seventeen pound  well sixteen ninety five	literal	0
and they did n't reduce them for the sale.	metaphorical	1
Mm. 	literal	0
He would n't let me pay that for it, he said  that they had at the shop.	metaphorical	1
And when we went then after Christmas the shop was  closed down for the	metaphorical	1
There we are!	literal	0
the Christmas holidays. 	literal	0
I'll have that one.	literal	0
You do n't mind Alison taking you home?	literal	0
No, I do n't mind.	literal	0
No, you've got ta give it me back, I'm gon na.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Hope she looks after you.	metaphorical	1
   Perhaps she'll help come in with you.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
She's stupid!	literal	0
She!	literal	0
 She's going now and gon na leave me this old crap on the table!.	metaphorical	1
What?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 No, I have n't.	literal	0
 I've, no I'm gon na give this to.	literal	0
 If it was me..	literal	0
.	literal	0
And!	literal	0
 Are you coming with me, yeah!	literal	0
But at least when this bloke comes tonight you've got something for him.	metaphorical	1
Especially what he's.	literal	0
You have n't been out.	literal	0
Well I ai n't had a   on the same rate as me!   blue  they should have the same, like mine!	metaphorical	1
 Would n't you?	literal	0
And then Kimmy can come and visit and play in the garden!	literal	0
That would be nice would n't it?	literal	0
 and go to bank and see what it would cost you for.	metaphorical	1
It's 	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 Well yo, you borrow your money on the house till your  mor,>till it comes through.	metaphorical	1
 Uncle Keith did that.	metaphorical	1
Well do you think it's a lot?	metaphorical	1
Well I do n't, he said	literal	0
It depends on, on the houses.	metaphorical	1
Well you've got an appoint, you're got ta go, have an appointment to go and see somebody there are n't you?	metaphorical	1
And then in the first place you're getting enough money you can  you can bash it away and that'll pay for your furniture.	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
You can have  down the road for the.	literal	0
Oh, cos it'll depend on his er  	metaphorical	1
And down at the road there.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Yes, and your.	literal	0
You could pawn those.	metaphorical	1
You're not!	literal	0
It would n't matter what they said.	literal	0
Mhm, you could pawn those.	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
 them  will come later when he got there  and then you can have something else nice.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Take what you want and leave the rest, your mother'll get rid of it.	metaphorical	1
Kimmy would like to come over and visit would n't you?	literal	0
 You'd have to make room in the back garden!	metaphorical	1
He never phoned me!.	literal	0
Going there?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 But	literal	0
But it might be.	literal	0
But what do you think?	literal	0
I think it's half the point!	literal	0
 I know.	literal	0
 Said  said he come from the  that and all.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
But you do n't need it in the car.  	literal	0
Yeah but, I mean yo, people are allowed now to put their own in are n't they?	literal	0
 But  you'd have to have the points fitted by them but  you get your own	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
And just get the  tested like me and your dad did.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
He did two rooms.	literal	0
I want that as well.	metaphorical	1
You're not having that!	metaphorical	1
No, I tell you what I'd like  you know the ones?	literal	0
Well what does it cost to get a little what's a name now?	metaphorical	1
 You just never been round to look.	literal	0
You go round in the sales, have a look.	metaphorical	1
Mm.	literal	0
You're not in a rush.	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
 Listen, I would them for you then!.	literal	0
Mhm.	literal	0
Oh I do n't know ma!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
I will.	literal	0
Well I'll put, Kimmy must be there cos Kimmy's gon na be one our bridesmaids!	literal	0
Ay!	literal	0
Ay!	literal	0
Ay!	literal	0
What are you doing?	literal	0
What are you doing lady?	metaphorical	1
Can Kimmy be one of our bridesmaids?	literal	0
Do you wan na be my bridesmaid?	literal	0
Come on sweetheart!	metaphorical	1
 Come on!	metaphorical	1
 Kimble.	literal	0
 Come on sweetheart!	metaphorical	1
 I think where anybod, ay!	literal	0
Come on!	metaphorical	1
 Alison's here to take him out do n't you?	literal	0
 Ay?	literal	0
 QQ Ay?	literal	0
The, all these light fittings, I do n't want to change them over.	metaphorical	1
We're not gon na win!	metaphorical	1
What you?	literal	0
It's me and.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Hello sweetheart!	literal	0
Why do n't put it underneath.	literal	0
Right,.	literal	0
What number is it?	literal	0
Eighty one.	literal	0
Well why?	literal	0
Oh it's bloody dangerous, very dangerous stuff!	metaphorical	1
 Twenty five.	literal	0
Well at least he can have a word with him about it and see what and he can do, and then you go  to  and see what they can do.	metaphorical	1
And, and, a  number five down  down.	literal	0
Go and have a look, he proba  probably for that price he might say oh, we'll leave the curtains and the carpets.	metaphorical	1
You've only got to have them cleaned!	metaphorical	1
But  the thing is erm  with that, unless they're living there they might  nice.	metaphorical	1
 It's only the ones that have  nobody living	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
in.	literal	0
 But we ca n't go in there.	literal	0
It's like that one in Stanley Road.	metaphorical	1
Well ring her up and see.	metaphorical	1
Should I?	literal	0
Not yet no, just get your  out there and  and then  you might have a bit of lee-way might not we then?	metaphorical	1
But how will I know where to go?.	literal	0
Well you just go to the front entrance	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
and see the porter.	literal	0
And say what type of ward?	literal	0
You want to go to the orthopaedic.	literal	0
And you go round the corner	literal	0
But she has to go to physio though.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
 You know where the porter's desk is?	literal	0
I know where to go.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
You go round that corner  not off that way towards the wards  just go from the desk right round the corner and follow it right the way down  as far as you can go.	metaphorical	1
 You ca n't go many further cos there's a blank wall	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
and you turn  to your left.	literal	0
 Before you hit the blank wall you turn to your left.	metaphorical	1
And does nan walk or have a wheelchair?	literal	0
Have a wheelchair.	literal	0
 Cos it's a good way down.	metaphorical	1
 And just go to reception	literal	0
and take and her card  and then her folder comes out as you take it.	metaphorical	1
 If you go now there'll be nobody there!	literal	0
 The fracture clinic she's going to.	literal	0
The factory?	literal	0
The fla	literal	0
Ay?	literal	0
The fracture clinic, not the bloody	metaphorical	1
Fracture.	literal	0
factory!	literal	0
The orthopaedic.	literal	0
The fra, fracture clinic!	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
 Okay.	literal	0
Oh no, I'm alright.	literal	0
 We'll see ah  it's just down  from here.	metaphorical	1
It's just.	literal	0
They know it's Doctor  so	literal	0
You what?	literal	0
You have to  somewhere.	literal	0
 But see if I get out in.	metaphorical	1
   wo n't they?	literal	0
 No, it's not mine actually.	literal	0
Do you, do you have to?	literal	0
Yes!	literal	0
It's got a garage and everything!	metaphorical	1
Ooh, it's sounds  nice!	literal	0
It'll cost you for a garage round here!	literal	0
When she moves the.	literal	0
.	literal	0
Get your coat on!	literal	0
It will be granddad's garage.	literal	0
Get your coat on love, ay?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah, I'm coming	literal	0
A man	literal	0
now!	literal	0
  A man tried to.	literal	0
 Double glazing!!	literal	0
 And it's on the, on the Station Road.	literal	0
Station Road.	literal	0
There's a fence round the garden at the back!	metaphorical	1
.  Go and look at the garden..	literal	0
 into the garage, 	literal	0
I, I.	literal	0
.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Soon be.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
When she was  you know.	literal	0
Put your arm in.	literal	0
  in the car.	literal	0
Yeah but you'll be sitting in the chair wo n't you love?	literal	0
Yep.	literal	0
Are you tired of walking?	metaphorical	1
 Put your arm in.	literal	0
Come on Kimmy!	metaphorical	1
Better have the.	literal	0
Oh, hello!	literal	0
 You little smasher are n't you?	metaphorical	1
Now you've got ta get your coat on.	literal	0
All the curtains and everything.	literal	0
Are you coming then?	literal	0
.  Yeah?	literal	0
 Need anything else?	literal	0
 Microwave, mincer?	literal	0
 One  or two?	literal	0
 Lord help me if it's from!	metaphorical	1
And do n't forget we're going down the fracture clinic Alison!	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
 She	literal	0
I	literal	0
has n't forgotten that.	metaphorical	1
I.	literal	0
Do you want your chocolates?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Chocolates?	literal	0
.	literal	0
Right, what do you think?	literal	0
Oh  for me to go down there.	literal	0
I'll be very nice!	literal	0
Well you'll have to.	literal	0
Why?	literal	0
Well!	literal	0
I mean	literal	0
Ah, get a.	literal	0
What you spend you could buy something.	literal	0
Lots of.	literal	0
 Coming back here after tea.	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
Invited to.	literal	0
Ah, and you want  want to get dad out of here ay?	literal	0
 Bloody well!	literal	0
Not a bloody   cos I did n't hear him!	metaphorical	1
.	literal	0
Oh.	literal	0
Fifty one.	literal	0
Going down Sainsbury's.	literal	0
Anyway, you got everything there, you got your garage, you know, you got double glazing.	literal	0
You got central heating!	literal	0
Look out  garage, we'll get one.	literal	0
Yep.	literal	0
 A   a.	literal	0
Where is this?	literal	0
Yeah, I've got one.	literal	0
Kimmy!	literal	0
Come here!	literal	0
That's it!	metaphorical	1
That's that erm  Dartmoor Wildlife Park, that's Dartmoor or wherever it is!	metaphorical	1
When he was little he was sat in his buggy	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
his lunch.	literal	0
And she got ta showed down	literal	0
Fifteen bits and then 	literal	0
from on top of a	literal	0
Now that's right!	metaphorical	1
building.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Right on top of him  and it turned round and smacked	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
him in the face  and he's never liked them since.	literal	0
No, leave the sound!	metaphorical	1
You can listen to it without the sound.	metaphorical	1
Why, what you got on?	metaphorical	1
Ha!	literal	0
This!	literal	0
There's ashtray there.	literal	0
Oh well aunty Julie's had a little boy then Sam?	metaphorical	1
Yeah I know.	literal	0
Could.	literal	0
No, you're not allowed to have it.	literal	0
Yeah exactly eight pound.	literal	0
Eight pound?	literal	0
That's quite big in n it?	metaphorical	1
Not really.	literal	0
Not seeing the size she was.	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
And they said it was gon na be a difficult birth and that cos 	metaphorical	1
Can you see the spikes?	literal	0
baby is n't she?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Just see them ca n't you?	literal	0
 did n't she?	literal	0
I thought she was really lucky though!	literal	0
Mind you do n't bang your head.	literal	0
Alright?	literal	0
Yeah not bad for trainers as well i n't they?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Normal	literal	0
Lee!	literal	0
normal trainers but they just got spikes in them.	metaphorical	1
Seventy, about seventy five pound a pair!	literal	0
So he's gon na do it cash?	literal	0
Well the chap came yesterday	literal	0
Watch!	literal	0
when	literal	0
Ouch!	literal	0
Exactly!	literal	0
she was on her way into town see	metaphorical	1
Ahhh!	literal	0
Well I do n't know which turns out  best	metaphorical	1
And she came out a you know seeing who was going in	literal	0
Ah ah ah ah ah!	literal	0
They know when.	literal	0
and Phil went round there yesterday afternoon.	metaphorical	1
Fifteen quid for this.	literal	0
And she said that she'd had the baby she was  great.	metaphorical	1
How many am I losing?	literal	0
Yeah but, and she should of phoned, did she?	literal	0
She did!	literal	0
Well yeah, we had a 	literal	0
And if you wrap them round the 	literal	0
Supposed to be going down there this afternoon but	metaphorical	1
Well should have won	literal	0
oi!	literal	0
the shoe.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
They had a bit of bad luck they reckon it was 	metaphorical	1
Oh, yes I know.	literal	0
He sat in seven minutes did n't he?	literal	0
We'll just drop the kids over Beryl's and er	metaphorical	1
And leave them, leave with them 	literal	0
do n't they?	literal	0
Got to just pop into town.	metaphorical	1
Okay.	literal	0
What's that?	literal	0
Oh Malcolm does like turkey so we'll have turkey tomorrow.	literal	0
Yeah, I could n't get one down Co-op yesterday, they did n't have any.	metaphorical	1
Well they did	literal	0
Well chicken.	literal	0
You could either have a ten or a twelve pound	literal	0
No, not that.	literal	0
one	literal	0
You not getting them and all?	literal	0
or you could have a	literal	0
What about you?	metaphorical	1
I got ta cook chicken for them.	literal	0
Or you could have a	literal	0
No!	literal	0
piddling little chicken	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
for about four pound	metaphorical	1
You do n't get nothing on them chickens?	metaphorical	1
cos only had  not ha, I thought no way!	metaphorical	1
At least  I'll give you, who's gon na bet	metaphorical	1
right, who is  at first place tomorrow, they're bound to be two, first  of the day, so	metaphorical	1
I thought well in town you can get about  they have er  a big turkey.	metaphorical	1
I'll go and get one this afternoon.	metaphorical	1
And I've got ta get erm	literal	0
No!	literal	0
It's your granddad's birthday in n it, on Tuesday?	metaphorical	1
Urgh!	literal	0
Sit down!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I'll get him a card.	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
Well I'm only	literal	0
Stop pulling her hair!	literal	0
I'm only giving cards out because as you know nan does n't bother with birthdays	metaphorical	1
Yeah sit er!	literal	0
Terrible!	literal	0
Them two!	literal	0
Pulling hair!	literal	0
Well you're pulling, you little bugger!	metaphorical	1
And I suppose I better get er  Carl's birthday card while I'm at it.	metaphorical	1
oi!	literal	0
You saw that card	metaphorical	1
I brought for Andy did n't you?	literal	0
Oh I did n't show you it.	literal	0
Just come this way.	literal	0
Have a swinging birthday	metaphorical	1
Take this  take this 	literal	0
no, it's your birthday have a swinging time on	metaphorical	1
Come here!	literal	0
and then inside it said  got ta make sure you give in any  no, let's hope you you get	metaphorical	1
Up you get!	literal	0
what you've got!	literal	0
Yo you've got a.	literal	0
Get Julie a card as well.	literal	0
I should thrash her!	literal	0
I ought to go to the party.	literal	0
Oh I think I've got one.	literal	0
Oh yes.	literal	0
Yeah, it's a lovely  from erm  Avon for Anne.	literal	0
But er  be fine for the baby and everything.	metaphorical	1
And where else?	literal	0
But er	literal	0
That's right, yeah.	metaphorical	1
where do you put your	literal	0
so I ordered a  so many 	literal	0
mum mum!	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
 hotel.	literal	0
Not quite there.	literal	0
Get that hat.	metaphorical	1
Cos I said.	literal	0
Yeah she used	literal	0
to  nice.	literal	0
Ah no!	literal	0
No!	literal	0
nought point ten and going up  point two of a second, that is fast!	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Have you got ta get a card for Julie as well?	literal	0
First leg look.	metaphorical	1
  that's what's 	literal	0
Yeah, Vicki bought a birthday card for nanny when it comes round.	metaphorical	1
what I reckon, easy that, that easy to get that  far outright.	metaphorical	1
  uncle.	literal	0
There are!	literal	0
New baby.	literal	0
Oh and it's blue as well!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
I knew I'd got one somewhere.	literal	0
That's from 	literal	0
That's the 	literal	0
I got a wedding  wedding day card there	literal	0
that's the one.	literal	0
you do n't know anybody that's getting married do you?	literal	0
I think that's.	literal	0
And our boys been there have n't they?	literal	0
Canada.	literal	0
Oh right!	literal	0
This is fixing it in n it?	literal	0
There was a	literal	0
Aha.	literal	0
 charity match.	literal	0
Got one have n't I?	literal	0
Come on!	metaphorical	1
No.	literal	0
No we, well you know I bought	literal	0
You you get the handle	literal	0
who's some of that for?	literal	0
you get, hold onto the handle  no not there!	literal	0
Erm  I'd like to see whoever wins this.	metaphorical	1
Erm  making a car!	literal	0
Ca n't wait to see their face!	literal	0
Well my mum got it for 	literal	0
What, whichever gon na get mi, if somebody, they get a medal do n't they? 	literal	0
Well mum, mum got me this when	literal	0
It is 	literal	0
cos a friend of mine had a  baby and we thought it was gon na be a boy and she had another bloody girl!	metaphorical	1
First!	literal	0
She'd already bought the bloody card!	metaphorical	1
Cos there's only three lots been down i n't there?	metaphorical	1
Four.	literal	0
Oh well the French.	literal	0
 then are n't they?	literal	0
Ca n't go any higher.	metaphorical	1
Stu, they'll go down now look, you watch!	metaphorical	1
Oh, they're second!	literal	0
A ca car go down.	metaphorical	1
A car!	literal	0
No it is n't granddad.	literal	0
They're in the house now.	literal	0
A car!	literal	0
What?	literal	0
  Shut up!	literal	0
 Mummy!	literal	0
That's.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
That was Vicki's	literal	0
Eight point one of a second!	literal	0
car!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
It's my granddad's in n it?	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
And Vicki's	literal	0
Seventy six.	literal	0
!	literal	0
Wait!	literal	0
They're getting slower!	literal	0
A A key  a	literal	0
Ah.	literal	0
Ah key ah key!	literal	0
How can you?	literal	0
He  Ah!	literal	0
Which one's that of ours?	metaphorical	1
The second England soon in n it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 the first.	literal	0
Daddy!	literal	0
They were ninth were n't they?	literal	0
Well they ai n't gon na stay there long!	metaphorical	1
We got all the big blokes to come yet!	metaphorical	1
They got Vanden	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
What's his name?	literal	0
Hang on a minute!	metaphorical	1
Out the way a minute!	literal	0
Oh oh!	literal	0
The German?	literal	0
 Popoloff, no what's his name?	literal	0
Er	literal	0
Popoloff!	literal	0
 Hopa.	literal	0
 Hopa.	literal	0
I wonder if  Hopa will get out of that?	metaphorical	1
They got bars up their sleeves i n't they?	literal	0
The  Hopa's of Germany.	literal	0
Andy Pandy for  What was that?	literal	0
That's a new one.	literal	0
A slip.	metaphorical	1
Well it's a	literal	0
I see!	metaphorical	1
Mummy!	literal	0
Mum!	literal	0
Oh full points!	metaphorical	1
Mum!	literal	0
Mum!	literal	0
Cor!	literal	0
Not good!	literal	0
Or watch Kirsty.	literal	0
Oh well it should be fun now, Kirsty!	literal	0
Oh well	literal	0
Tell.	literal	0
Kirsty and Sam the other night, they were punching shit out of each other were n't they!	metaphorical	1
they plenty of ti, they got plenty 	literal	0
Where are they now?	literal	0
It wo n't be all Kirsty now, they're in one already!	metaphorical	1
Germany.	literal	0
Carl will speak to Michael now.	metaphorical	1
Well di, did Andy want a boy?	literal	0
No!	literal	0
He wanted another girl did n't he?	literal	0
No, he wanted a boy.	literal	0
No, cos Julie wanted a boy  and Andy wanted another girl!	literal	0
He wanted a boy!	literal	0
Well why did he say to me he wanted a girl?	metaphorical	1
I done, was having.	literal	0
Cos she was something one night, well said yeah that she wants more than, he wants more than two.	literal	0
If it was a girl	literal	0
!	literal	0
he'd have a	metaphorical	1
if it was another girl he would have another one.	metaphorical	1
Vicki!	literal	0
Yep!	literal	0
Gently!	literal	0
I know you!	literal	0
Be nice!	literal	0
Ooh ooh ooh ooh!	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
Gently!	literal	0
You little sod!	metaphorical	1
oi!	literal	0
Go and do it with your dolly, go on!	metaphorical	1
Where is she?	literal	0
Go on I'll go and get her.	metaphorical	1
That's sick!	literal	0
Disgusting in n it!	literal	0
Mind your foot Vicki!	literal	0
Come here!	literal	0
Keep still Vicki!	literal	0
Mind the chair!	literal	0
Oh God!	literal	0
It's her!	literal	0
What is it about hair?	metaphorical	1
She did n't hear us!	literal	0
Nearly!	literal	0
She did! oi!	literal	0
Gently!	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Give her that back!	literal	0
Gently!	literal	0
Go and play!	literal	0
Go on then!	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
Get off!	literal	0
Well let go then!	literal	0
Give it back to Stephanie  nicely!	literal	0
Come over here!	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Who come see	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
you last night?	literal	0
Di.	literal	0
No she did n't!	literal	0
Fifty eight point	literal	0
Nana and granddad.	literal	0
What is it gon na be?	literal	0
Di!	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Take fifty three.	metaphorical	1
No!	literal	0
Who come to see you?	literal	0
Fifty five	literal	0
Granddad.	literal	0
fifty six, fifty seven, fifty eight	literal	0
Granddad	literal	0
No, who's got a blue van?	literal	0
Well	literal	0
That's three in one is it?	literal	0
No Pete!	literal	0
Just the three.	literal	0
Three in one.	literal	0
Pete?	literal	0
Uncle	literal	0
Three in two.	literal	0
Stuart.	literal	0
I got three in one to come yet!	metaphorical	1
 Banda!	literal	0
And they  Hopa yet,  for Germany.	literal	0
This is  Havvaher.	literal	0
Gerald!	literal	0
Gerald.	literal	0
Gerald.	literal	0
It's all on that fall.	literal	0
No this is one	metaphorical	1
! 	literal	0
Yeah but is that Canada one or Canada?	metaphorical	1
No you're not having any sweets cos 	literal	0
It was Canada, was it Canada one or Canada two?	literal	0
Yes my  okay.	literal	0
Joe give, oh yeah Joe will give you sweets wo n't he?	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
I like pee pee!	literal	0
Give me!	literal	0
Yes, yes we 	literal	0
Upset.	metaphorical	1
 gon na get them now.	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
Go on then you'll be able to see mummy from work.	metaphorical	1
Granddad.	literal	0
I've been up the bath.	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
He come home Thursday.	literal	0
Here are Phil.	literal	0
That's  what?	literal	0
Has he got that thing going?	metaphorical	1
I do n't wan na make.	literal	0
Yeah I think so.	literal	0
Nanny!	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
What?	literal	0
Why have you got the sound up on the telly then?	metaphorical	1
Philip!	literal	0
Cos I'm listening to the kids.	metaphorical	1
Philip!	literal	0
You and the bloody telly, he sat there with the ashtray in his hand and all bloody ash is falling out the bottom!	metaphorical	1
Just rub it in.	literal	0
Who's that?	literal	0
Here are.	literal	0
I du n no.	literal	0
 Is the guy  with this?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
This is the  Hopa, this German man.	literal	0
Weeee	literal	0
No, this is a Swede!	literal	0
You got a nappy on!	literal	0
 Bander.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
No.	literal	0
They've already won a two man bobsleigh.	literal	0
Ha!	literal	0
oi!	literal	0
Yeah, that fucking England should have won that!	metaphorical	1
Well yeah but that's life in n it?	metaphorical	1
Fucking so,  Grundy, fucking	literal	0
The	literal	0
lost it all!	metaphorical	1
They're having fucking!	literal	0
 Thorpe was n't too bad.	literal	0
For the first leg he was 	metaphorical	1
Oh it's cold in n it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
And really windy do you think?	literal	0
The course was crap!	literal	0
That man  coming to do	metaphorical	1
Here are look!	literal	0
my windows again Thursday.	literal	0
But I  but I	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
hit eye.	literal	0
And what about?	metaphorical	1
  You do n't like him do you?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Which one?	literal	0
But they keep it.	metaphorical	1
They keep the lead	metaphorical	1
Well	literal	0
do n't they?	literal	0
And they do n't.	literal	0
Here are!	literal	0
Most of them get back into it in a big way.	metaphorical	1
Come and clean my windows and I owed him from the last time.	metaphorical	1
That's why they do it in the middle but it's	metaphorical	1
Go on!	metaphorical	1
the first still.	literal	0
Car!	literal	0
Come and look!	literal	0
Ooh ee!	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
Gone.	literal	0
He's harmless thought ai n't he? 	literal	0
Yeah he's gone.	literal	0
I sit a mummy.	literal	0
Do n't you think it's horrible  round here?	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
That is, this.	literal	0
But he wo n't do them now!	literal	0
Not only that, if you paid thirty pound you could go down there could n't you?	metaphorical	1
Ah mummy!	literal	0
There's a 	literal	0
Yeah?	literal	0
I mean he wanted	literal	0
Ah.	literal	0
to keep them	literal	0
Ah.	literal	0
.	literal	0
!	literal	0
Mummy!	literal	0
They're not interested in them	metaphorical	1
Yeah?	literal	0
now cos.	literal	0
But the thing is you wo n't	metaphorical	1
They're seconds	literal	0
The thing is	metaphorical	1
So where's England?	metaphorical	1
England's been knocked right down now have n't they?	metaphorical	1
Seventh.	literal	0
Hey!	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
But erm  but the thing is  they ca, they co the blokes do n't have to  behind do n't see that much do they?	metaphorical	1
They got their head down, see that	metaphorical	1
Right!	literal	0
Play with the other one Sam?	literal	0
Here's  Hopa!	literal	0
See they got they're  head down all the time.	metaphorical	1
Have to get out one of them dolls Phil.	metaphorical	1
Gon na have to get one of them dolls, she loves them.	metaphorical	1
Yeah alright.	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
He's got  has n't he?	literal	0
Oh yeah.	literal	0
Play with the other one!	literal	0
Look!	literal	0
Play with that one!	literal	0
That one's nice over by there cos it's got the long hair.	metaphorical	1
Yeah but one's not gon na fit!	literal	0
Yep!	literal	0
I knocked out by four.	metaphorical	1
I'll play er  Germans.	literal	0
I'm waiting for you.	literal	0
Germans.	literal	0
Even wait outside.	literal	0
German's off!	literal	0
Mummy!	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
Where's she's going to?	literal	0
Where's she going?	literal	0
Not me! 	literal	0
You're not to come down until  baby!	literal	0
 Aye?	literal	0
 said so.	literal	0
Fifty eight point one.	literal	0
What about the baby look!! 	metaphorical	1
Mm!	literal	0
Eight pound!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
That's a weight of 	metaphorical	1
Did you tell her we'll wait here?	literal	0
I'm waiting here so	literal	0
But ma mummy!	literal	0
Do n't you think so?	literal	0
We left off eight pound and 	literal	0
Mummy!	literal	0
at three and a half months!	metaphorical	1
Yeah, I mean personally.	literal	0
She.	literal	0
She.	literal	0
That's right.	metaphorical	1
It's!	literal	0
Oh you want in that do you?	literal	0
Think so.	literal	0
Right.	literal	0
No!	literal	0
Going in all over  that's the position anyway!	literal	0
There are Phil	literal	0
That's from last night.	metaphorical	1
if I give you that four.	literal	0
Alright.	literal	0
Vicki!	literal	0
Mm mm!	literal	0
Wee wee!	literal	0
Is that for me?	literal	0
That's for your sister.	literal	0
There you go!	metaphorical	1
Oop!	literal	0
Had my 	literal	0
Ah shit on my foot!	literal	0
cos I was late.	literal	0
Wee wee!	literal	0
Do you see Brookside last night?	literal	0
No!	literal	0
No cos he do n't let me watch it!	literal	0
Crap!	metaphorical	1
You do n't!	literal	0
It was n't me last night!	literal	0
That's crap!	metaphorical	1
Why do n't you watch it?	literal	0
 last night.	literal	0
Urgh!	literal	0
Hello!	literal	0
It was good!	literal	0
Then  I do normally watch it with you.	literal	0
You did n't watch it last night.	literal	0
Only Mondays.	literal	0
Your lying again	literal	0
Well	literal	0
again to me!	metaphorical	1
I'm not allowed to Wednesdays cos your mum do n't watch it on a Wednesday!	metaphorical	1
Well that's nothing to do with me!	metaphorical	1
You ca n't blame me	literal	0
Oh that's nice!	metaphorical	1
then can you?	literal	0
Ca n't blame me for that!	metaphorical	1
Er  end of.	literal	0
Cos she was  would she?  cake	literal	0
Who?	literal	0
Cake?	literal	0
No!	literal	0
for her birthday.	literal	0
Yeah, a big cake.	literal	0
Got her some.	literal	0
Said Happy Birthday	metaphorical	1
Well na	literal	0
we, they  the cake and er  she would n't  would n't sit down so  Terry kept saying to her right now what you doing?	metaphorical	1
She said, hang on	metaphorical	1
Wee wee!	literal	0
a minute!	literal	0
They come right up.	literal	0
Called us all in the lounge  and gave us a	literal	0
bottle of Taboo	literal	0
back in with her, like.	literal	0
and about that much left in the bottle  so er	metaphorical	1
Seventy mile an hour.	literal	0
went and got the lemonade  so I was tipping it in, so Terry goes, he goes I'll have it all!	metaphorical	1
Urgh!	literal	0
  Throw us a drink!	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah, one point two.	literal	0
Gerald come in and he said you been on the piss already?	metaphorical	1
I said am I hell!	metaphorical	1
I said I got ta be bloody sober!	literal	0
You did n't you get?	literal	0
You got cake as well then?	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
Bought me a chocolate  sponge thing.	metaphorical	1
Oh  Gary and  me and	literal	0
I feel 	literal	0
her and Vicki had a piece.	literal	0
And he said, yeah take what.	literal	0
And I said, well I'll put it back in the fridge and she said no, she said take it home she said	literal	0
Yeah but	literal	0
I bought it for you.	literal	0
when you're thinking about it it's not even a second out.	metaphorical	1
What's wrong with her?	metaphorical	1
So then she come round and she said I do n't even do this for Karen!	metaphorical	1
Another one down there.	literal	0
She said Karen would n't be very happy if she found out!	literal	0
Ooh yes!	literal	0
If she finds out.	literal	0
I said, but who's gon na tell her?	literal	0
Who me?	literal	0
It's a lot in n it Ga?	literal	0
So I thought well  I'm not!	literal	0
What?	literal	0
It's a lot in this in n it?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
And then she said er  when she	literal	0
All that!	literal	0
come home from work  she said I've been looking round in Boots and that for you, she said er  I've decided, she said I was gon na get you a gift voucher.	metaphorical	1
Twice you've just  I'm watching you two!	metaphorical	1
for for Marks and Spencers or	literal	0
Ah?	literal	0
somewhere like that  she said, but I've er decided not to, she said I'll give you the money on Saturday if that's alright?	metaphorical	1
Only.	literal	0
You mean what I said 	literal	0
So I said er  but I know you're off to Torquay on Friday with Di, cos that's him hinting, thank God it's out!	metaphorical	1
So she said er	literal	0
After calling me a bastard and all this now 	metaphorical	1
so she I, I'll sort you out	metaphorical	1
on Saturday!	metaphorical	1
So	literal	0
What	literal	0
Ah!	literal	0
next Saturday?	metaphorical	1
Ooh! 	literal	0
You love them really do n't you?	literal	0
So she said er  it wo n't only be fiver cos she said	literal	0
Oh yeah!	literal	0
you ca n't get a lot with a fiver.	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
So I thought well!	literal	0
Put it back!	literal	0
Probably five pound fifty!	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
I thought about that!	metaphorical	1
Listen no wonder he's world champion he can go afford to skiing, his dad's a multi-millionaire!	literal	0
But er  no, we were talking and she said if I give you the money you wo n't go and spend it on the	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
kids will you?	literal	0
I said, you got ta be joking!	literal	0
I said, I normally do	literal	0
He's loaded ai n't he?	metaphorical	1
but I said no, this time I said	metaphorical	1
He goes for it do n't he?	metaphorical	1
not likely!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Mm.	literal	0
With Vicki just having her birthday she's got all she needs now is n't it?	metaphorical	1
Well that's it and.	metaphorical	1
But she has n't got a helicopter.	literal	0
You leave him alone!	metaphorical	1
Leave him alone!	metaphorical	1
I want a!	literal	0
?	literal	0
No, I'll go and spend it in one myself.	metaphorical	1
That's alright.	metaphorical	1
You'll have to off to do something like that, communal	metaphorical	1
I want a wee wee!	literal	0
And Di will be really pissed off	literal	0
Anyway	literal	0
by the time we've walked round	metaphorical	1
all them shops!	metaphorical	1
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh ooh ooh ooh!	literal	0
Just there on the last	literal	0
No!	literal	0
ai n't he?	literal	0
I want a wee wee!	literal	0
Well how come	metaphorical	1
Yeah they're just showing some of the mistakes as well the windy down.	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Here comes the 	literal	0
I want a wee wee!	literal	0
I want a	literal	0
Sammy wants a wee wee!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
You fellers  I'll get up!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
He's gon na do the sound effects!	literal	0
Down  down and out.	literal	0
Wee wee!	literal	0
Wee!	literal	0
Wee wee! 	literal	0
See him.	literal	0
No, no.	literal	0
Do it yourself!	literal	0
Yeah, he's alright.	literal	0
Go away!	literal	0
Yeah!	literal	0
Go away you!	literal	0
Go away!	literal	0
Well  won yesterday	literal	0
Aye!	literal	0
to the, the 	literal	0
No!	literal	0
But th	literal	0
Wee wee.	literal	0
No, you do n't want a wee wee cos I have to go.	literal	0
A wee wee!	literal	0
No, you do n't!	literal	0
You got a nappy on!	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Oh a big miss of that gear though in n it?	metaphorical	1
Where's daddy?	literal	0
Where's daddy?	literal	0
Bet your popular with Nanny!	metaphorical	1
I am are n't I? 	literal	0
What is it?	literal	0
Get up!	literal	0
You love it really do n't you?	literal	0
Oh, what?	literal	0
The hole in the head, ai n't you?	metaphorical	1
Yeah.	literal	0
Come on Phil!	metaphorical	1
Alright then.	literal	0
It's alright Phil, I'll have him.	literal	0
You mean  aye?	literal	0
Yes, his next month out of his wages!	metaphorical	1
Listen to me!	metaphorical	1
Shut up!	literal	0
Ca n't get no birthday money out of him!	literal	0
Who?	literal	0
Hurry up Phil!	literal	0
Any of yours?	literal	0
What thing?	literal	0
You should n't put  there.	literal	0
Yeah, but yeah I do say so!	literal	0
Come on daddy!	metaphorical	1
Tomorrow morning, go down to Marks and come back for my wages.	metaphorical	1
Oh that's alright then.	metaphorical	1
My twenty five percent here  cor that'll be an expensive month!	metaphorical	1
  I've already had mine.	metaphorical	1
You'll get this and nothing more!	literal	0
And you	literal	0
Wow!	literal	0
will get this and	literal	0
 for twenty five pounds, aye? 	literal	0
Well I'd better go and get changed had n't I?	metaphorical	1
Twenty four!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Shall I go and have a wash now?	metaphorical	1
We're ready then?	literal	0
We're ready!	literal	0
I've only got ta change	literal	0
Ready?	literal	0
him.	literal	0
Just have to.	literal	0
So we'll see you later!	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
What time?	literal	0
We'll be about	literal	0
They last a day when they're old look my mother what  they really last a day.	metaphorical	1
Stephan help yourself.	literal	0
The rose bush was not was not pruned this year so I doubt if we're going to have many flowers.	metaphorical	1
But there are.	literal	0
See look!	literal	0
Look at this just one rose.	literal	0
 but they just whither very quickly.	metaphorical	1
So whether to leave but that sort  is waiting.	literal	0
Look macho.	literal	0
Yes?	literal	0
Ooh!	literal	0
Heavy this is.	literal	0
Never make up for a 	literal	0
Is that a male.	literal	0
No	literal	0
Have you made arrangements to meet him?	metaphorical	1
Yeah tomorrow	literal	0
Tomorrow	literal	0
Hmm hmm	literal	0
Where're you seeing him?	literal	0
By the Sycamore gardens in Kensington.	literal	0
I thinks it's near Denise.	literal	0
What is she doing now?	literal	0
I taught her the flat	literal	0
The Finnigan and Arms?	literal	0
Arms	literal	0
Must be very well off then	literal	0
No captain she has her six months leave.	metaphorical	1
You know it's goping to be sold this flat. 	metaphorical	1
Did he?	literal	0
And she's going to look for a flat somewhere else of course	metaphorical	1
Yes but that's where Rothchild lives in Finnimore House.	metaphorical	1
Yes. 	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Ahh.	literal	0
   she live in England	literal	0
Mmm	literal	0
She 	literal	0
Yes yes	literal	0
Does Ian too?	literal	0
Where is he working?	literal	0
Mm?	literal	0
Ca n't remember which one	literal	0
Hmm?	literal	0
One of those  old ones	metaphorical	1
Yeah in London or in Brussels or?	literal	0
No here.	literal	0
Yeah hmm hmm  Yes it's always a difficult subject.	metaphorical	1
It's a most it is not an international subject.	metaphorical	1
But there is such a thing as international law	metaphorical	1
There is but I mean it is	literal	0
and more and more people chooses  more and more	literal	0
Hmm but there's	literal	0
 military service	literal	0
Mm mm	literal	0
Mm mm	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
 It's going to be um been to his grandmother's flat near your place	literal	0
Hmm hm	literal	0
Near  the other side of the motorway.	metaphorical	1
What is it called?	literal	0
Westland?	literal	0
Hmm mm.	literal	0
Which side is it?	metaphorical	1
Is it the one where they have those terrible blocks?	metaphorical	1
I almost think so.	literal	0
I think it's in a block.	metaphorical	1
Yes um.	literal	0
Hmm hmm.	literal	0
May be I'm wrong but I think it's in a block.	metaphorical	1
And his mother lived there and she ca n't live on her own any more.	metaphorical	1
Could he moved south.	literal	0
Where where would she have lived?	literal	0
No	literal	0
In a home with a nursing home?	metaphorical	1
No	literal	0
Any where else?	literal	0
Hmm hmm	literal	0
She wants to take over 	literal	0
Hmm hmm	literal	0
Floor you know you had a middle floor.	metaphorical	1
Move in there but  let her stand  	literal	0
Probably  has because of the staircases for old people	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
They ca n't manage the staircase	metaphorical	1
I do n't know how she could manage the stairs	metaphorical	1
Yes there are two flights of stairs are n't there?	metaphorical	1
Hmm.	literal	0
 Well if she has a hip replacement operation she'll be all right.	metaphorical	1
Mm	literal	0
Surprising how many of these 	literal	0
 Yeah?	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
Hip replacement operations 	metaphorical	1
Yeah?	literal	0
Rheumatism, arthritis, those are their great worries	metaphorical	1
Hmm hmm	literal	0
and deafness hmm	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
It's awful if you ca n't hear	literal	0
Yeah you know what Cathy speak at the radio	metaphorical	1
Saying that you now ahm replace the bones of crippled fingers	metaphorical	1
Really?	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
Oh I do n't think I shall go in for that.	metaphorical	1
Well yes	literal	0
 I know	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
Did you know that?	metaphorical	1
Yes	literal	0
I never had a replacement	metaphorical	1
Replacement with what?	literal	0
Elbow no knees I suppose elbows as well	literal	0
Hmm	literal	0
Knees and fingers.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
But you're never	literal	0
And some kind of	literal	0
If you're very twisted	literal	0
And nerves too when you have a finger whose paralysed and could n't remove it and put in a nerve and then they could work again.	metaphorical	1
You can remove?	literal	0
I do n't know do they	literal	0
 to be transplanted	metaphorical	1
 you walk on crutches for the rest of your life.	literal	0
It's when you need	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
It wo n't work	metaphorical	1
It will work	metaphorical	1
How do you know	literal	0
Hips do n't work properly hmm	metaphorical	1
Some do	literal	0
No not really	literal	0
No.	literal	0
They're all there but their their umbrellas and their walking sticks	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
You do n't think they work properly?	metaphorical	1
Yes of course they do work properly.	metaphorical	1
What do you of course?	literal	0
You know a new elbow, a new knee and you think it's going to the like your own elbow?	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
No it's not	literal	0
A piece of metal or plastic?	literal	0
Hmm hmm	literal	0
No of course not	literal	0
 it helps	metaphorical	1
Yes but heavens you know you'll never climb with that and you'll never climb the stairs	metaphorical	1
No?	literal	0
Of course not  dear me!	literal	0
Some coffee?	literal	0
Yes I do very much some coffee	literal	0
Hmm yes	literal	0
Good 	literal	0
Why do n't we share it?	literal	0
Come on	metaphorical	1
No thanks	literal	0
come on Stephan its	metaphorical	1
No thanks 	literal	0
One should finish it come on	metaphorical	1
No thank you if Patrick does n't want	literal	0
I ca n't eat it I do n't think so he had a big lunch	literal	0
Oh 	literal	0
Not much to finish  Oh!	literal	0
 All my  Ah we have to still tell Patrick about  have n't we?	metaphorical	1
About?	metaphorical	1
Yes because he really wants to know.	literal	0
What?	literal	0
Are they to leave?	literal	0
Yes yes	literal	0
Have you  vegetables	literal	0
No no	literal	0
No no really	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
Sure	literal	0
Well you know I do n't mind one bit no?	literal	0
No	literal	0
Okay.	literal	0
Patrick you know where I would like to go and look at this thing we have to 	metaphorical	1
Whose that?	literal	0
Hmm?	literal	0
We have to give  an answer.	metaphorical	1
What's that?	metaphorical	1
About this holiday you know this arrangement	metaphorical	1
Which arrangement?	metaphorical	1
Well the the hotel we are going to stay	literal	0
Oh! yes well	literal	0
Yes?	literal	0
I would like to	literal	0
I would rather stay here.	literal	0
Hmm?	literal	0
I'd rather stay here	literal	0
You would?	literal	0
I really would	literal	0
No I'd rather	literal	0
A fortnight in Bromley would do me splendidly hmm?	metaphorical	1
I would rather	literal	0
Buying  and they finished off	literal	0
You can buy them one day and bring them back the next	metaphorical	1
I really would if I had a choice I would stay here	metaphorical	1
Well you have n't got the choice	metaphorical	1
That was n't heavy was it?	metaphorical	1
Not too many pro not too much protein	literal	0
Yeah.	literal	0
No it was fine it was very good.	metaphorical	1
I think I'm going to have I will have gained weight when 	metaphorical	1
You think so?	literal	0
Hmm.	literal	0
When did you eat when did you eat your chips?	literal	0
About seven yes	metaphorical	1
Not here?	literal	0
When did you have your practice	metaphorical	1
About a week ago	metaphorical	1
No	literal	0
Oh when?	literal	0
At six.	metaphorical	1
yes?  supper?	literal	0
No  	literal	0
But you do n't put on weight so there.	metaphorical	1
Well I do n't know.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
I've never seen you fat	literal	0
Hmm I have	literal	0
Hmm?	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
When I was n't excited	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
Who cooked there?	literal	0
 I think.	literal	0
It was that's when I just came back from Switzerland I think.	metaphorical	1
Not very much	literal	0
But she was n't  with you?	metaphorical	1
Yes 	literal	0
Ah yes I thought	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
ould rather stay here	literal	0
No Patrick where would you would you mind to go to?	literal	0
Oh I do n't want to go to 	literal	0
What else then?	literal	0
Well I mean just look at the map you're you're going to  and then you're going to.	literal	0
Well I do n't mind.	literal	0
Oh certainly not I'm staying at  or the  I am not traipsing across France.	metaphorical	1
No?	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
 I do n't want to spend a fortnight on the road.	metaphorical	1
Well I do.	literal	0
Waht do you want to go to  for?	literal	0
But I	literal	0
It's miles it's miles away	literal	0
It does n't matter	literal	0
No no let's go to Mont Dor Nice or Lyon, somewhere on the road somewhere on the route	literal	0
I'm not going to spend a week on the route 	metaphorical	1
It's a very nice route	literal	0
Yes?	literal	0
Lyon?	literal	0
Lyon	literal	0
Lyon Lyon I know	literal	0
 so well in Lyon.	literal	0
Well you eat well	literal	0
Yes well I do n't want to eat well	literal	0
And I want to eat well and I want to be comfortable and I want to stay in good hotel	literal	0
Well the one in St Maxim's does n't do bad which is closer 	metaphorical	1
But would n't there be a people there?	literal	0
No	literal	0
Still in early September?	metaphorical	1
When it's sort of	literal	0
At at	literal	0
Lyon will be alright then the  might be all right but  right over on the Italian branch it might be all right mmm yes	metaphorical	1
Yes 	literal	0
I am not going up to  never	metaphorical	1
I am	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Who wants to go there?	literal	0
It will rain	literal	0
No it wo n't.	literal	0
Who said.	literal	0
I like it	literal	0
There is September 	literal	0
I like 	literal	0
Well you have been camping there once and that's enough	metaphorical	1
Hmm	literal	0
It is n't	literal	0
Of course I think it is.	literal	0
We have seen Brittany.	literal	0
No it's really lovely	literal	0
Hmm.	literal	0
Oh I do n't think I do n't think I want to go. 	literal	0
Ah who wants to go to Montu	literal	0
You know the peoples ah you know	literal	0
If I'm going to the South of France I want to stay there for awhile	literal	0
Ah no!	literal	0
Yes I do n't want to  France is enormous country.	literal	0
I know	literal	0
I do n't want to spend my time travelling	metaphorical	1
Do n't you remember the last time it was so beautiful going across across at home.	literal	0
It was really beautiful  I shall go alone 	literal	0
 this coffee Kathy?	literal	0
No I'm afraid not.	literal	0
I'd like to	literal	0
Coffee 	literal	0
Sit and eat that's what he wants.	metaphorical	1
I just do n't want that.	metaphorical	1
 I think we should have different holidays.	metaphorical	1
You know he's entitled to his holidays but I do n't want to sit	metaphorical	1
and read newspapers no thank you.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
This is in your  travelling around	metaphorical	1
Yes	literal	0
Well	literal	0
He does do n't you	literal	0
He did but not that much	metaphorical	1
No he does n't	literal	0
He rushes to Borg	literal	0
To where?	literal	0
To La Borg.	literal	0
I'm not rushing to La Borg anymore.	literal	0
Yes well you see?	metaphorical	1
He rushes to La Borg and that's also in Italy	metaphorical	1
Yes well  They think  can not be as far enough	literal	0
Hmm hmm	literal	0
 overlap	literal	0
Eating eating  all day long overlap	literal	0
From place to the  from another to the  and backwards again	metaphorical	1
  It's very nice walks through through the Merryland	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
To ah to.	literal	0
We're going for a walk to.	literal	0
It's just the first visit	literal	0
We went to Floyds I think we went	literal	0
Floods	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
That's a sweet little village	metaphorical	1
Yes	literal	0
Yes you have to careful with er that a holiday does n't just does n't become an expensive way of being uncomfortable you know	metaphorical	1
But it is n't	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Oh yes it is.	literal	0
To me it's an expensive way of being uncomfortable.	metaphorical	1
Well to me no.	metaphorical	1
So	literal	0
I'm more comfortable here than I am on holiday.	metaphorical	1
I sleep better	literal	0
Hmm I do.	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Gives you these hotels are n't comfortable, beds, noisy neighbours unusual food	metaphorical	1
Dear me!	literal	0
What next?	literal	0
Obliged to make polite conversation all the time oh!	metaphorical	1
With who?	metaphorical	1
I do n't know	literal	0
Behind your newspaper?	literal	0
Come on do n't invent you know?	metaphorical	1
Ah!	literal	0
It was so beautiful you know	literal	0
Where?	literal	0
Going through France ah the Severn and then all these towns.	metaphorical	1
It was fabulous.	metaphorical	1
Mmm really?	literal	0
Really really	literal	0
Yes provided yes but I would rather stay in one place	literal	0
We should stop at any one place	literal	0
Going to see to see ghosts	literal	0
No what rubbish	metaphorical	1
Lyon is a very nice town	literal	0
I do n't want to	literal	0
Lyon it's very nice	literal	0
Yes I'd like to see it for a day or two but not for a fortnight	literal	0
But Lyon is a very big town.	literal	0
It's the bigger	literal	0
It is	literal	0
But I'm not going on holiday in a town	metaphorical	1
Oh!	literal	0
Why not?	literal	0
No.	literal	0
Well you can spend some days on the Cote d'Azure	metaphorical	1
I do n't mind for about two three days	metaphorical	1
Go  	literal	0
 Well yes why not?	literal	0
No no 	literal	0
Very nice very	literal	0
Sure	literal	0
 strong hmm?	metaphorical	1
But the coffee  Did you buy it in Bromley?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
I just want it no no I'd like that small one.	literal	0
May be I will eat only half of it.	literal	0
I'm not eating whole of it.	literal	0
So no it's too much.	literal	0
So it looks awfully fresh the wretches made me almost squashed it.	metaphorical	1
They're nice when they're fresh.	literal	0
Yeah	literal	0
Isobel likes scones.	literal	0
Is there someone who likes them without currants?	literal	0
Hmm.	literal	0
You're not supposed to say but 	literal	0
Not too bad mmm	literal	0
I have very little though.	literal	0
I am also being careful.	literal	0
No I think I have half.	literal	0
You do n't have to to watch out  Scones.	literal	0
Where is scones?	literal	0
No	literal	0
Not too many miles	literal	0
Hmm do n't think we've ever been in 	literal	0
Large belt large belt of the community in  easterly	metaphorical	1
Hmm it's beautiful and the team	literal	0
 is a frontier town	literal	0
No, it's not	literal	0
Oh no no no	literal	0
No no it's before Monaco.	literal	0
Manto is before Monaco.	literal	0
Manto is very close to a very nice place called 	literal	0
But is n't Manto near the Italian border?	metaphorical	1
Well it's closer to the Italian border than Nice is	metaphorical	1
Hmm	literal	0
but it's still it's in between Nice and Monaco.	literal	0
Hmm.	literal	0
What is the frontier town?	literal	0
 France	literal	0
Benzaminia is the frontier town it's in	literal	0
Okay yes	literal	0
It's quite nice we have a very nice little villages on- you have, El	metaphorical	1
Yeah	literal	0
Quite nice on on above 	metaphorical	1
In the mountains?	literal	0
I know Alec has been there	literal	0
El is beautiful	literal	0
Is it?	literal	0
Well I like.	literal	0
Yes but we're not going to Brittany	literal	0
We are.	literal	0
It's off our route	literal	0
 you like all your	literal	0
but think what you missed	metaphorical	1
I'd like to sign it now	literal	0
Mmm 	literal	0
Bromley 	literal	0
The best French cider I have drunk is a French cider sold by by Sainsburys.	metaphorical	1
Quite 	literal	0
What?	literal	0
The best French cider is cider sold by Sainsburys one that I've drunk.	metaphorical	1
Well, I'm not a cider expert.	literal	0
I like  and the others.	literal	0
I really liked it.	literal	0
I loved to go back	literal	0
Well you can go back	literal	0
You'll have share that	literal	0
If you're going in er if you're going in that direction hmm?	metaphorical	1
No no no no no	literal	0
I I could but I have to be very careful	literal	0
I'm going to blow	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
Oh you had better stop	literal	0
Ca n't	literal	0
Just give me a week to  have in here.	metaphorical	1
You do n't have a coffee to be going on?	literal	0
Hmm?	literal	0
 with the soda	literal	0
They're terrible tense	literal	0
No just 	literal	0
Vaison does n't like sultana.	literal	0
Do you know that?	metaphorical	1
What does he..?	literal	0
He picks all out	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
Isobel wants	literal	0
He does n't like cinnamin goping either	literal	0
Isobel wants to go to Brazil	literal	0
Yes	literal	0
But well I mean it's rather stupid for how long?	metaphorical	1
Three weeks.	literal	0
Oh!	literal	0
But can Vaison take the three weeks holiday?	metaphorical	1
That's six I do n't know.	metaphorical	1
We're very reluctant to have to take three weeks holiday.	metaphorical	1
Will you? overlap	literal	0
Very I mean overlap	literal	0
We've got five weeks  discouraged from taking more than a fortnight at a time.	metaphorical	1
Hmm hmm.	literal	0
In Belgium many people do take three weeks at a time	metaphorical	1
Really?	literal	0
Hmm.	literal	0
Sometimes here in London.	literal	0
Really?	literal	0
Yes.	literal	0
You do come back with somebody sitting	metaphorical	1
They live for like one holiday which is the summer holiday to stay away you know?	literal	0
 I just  come back	literal	0
Perhaps when they come back they've got six months you know they've got a month's work on their hands.	metaphorical	1
I know.	literal	0
Some else's sitting at their desk?	literal	0
Well not you know cleaning  so I do n't know what kind of work they do.	literal	0
Oh well if you're here  that's all right	metaphorical	1
